.TH gamma4scanimage 1 "10 Jul 2008" "" "SANE Scanner Access Now Easy"
.IX gamma4scanimage
.SH NAME
gamma4scanimage \- create a gamma table for scanimage
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gamma4scanimage 
.I gamma
.RI [ shadow 
.RI [ highlight
.RI [ maxin
.RI [ maxout ]]]]

.SH DESCRIPTION
The tool
.B gamma4scanimage
creates a gamma table in the format expected by scanimage. You can define a
.BR gamma,
a
.BR shadow
and a
.BR highlight
value. You also can specify the size
.RB ( maxin )
and maximum output value
.RB ( maxout )
of the gamma table.
.PP
.BR gamma
is a floating point value, neutral value is 1.0, if the value is larger than
1.0 then the image gets brighter.
.PP
.BR shadow
defines the minimum input value that is necessary to create an output value
larger than zero.  shadow has to be in the range [0..maxin]. Its default value
is 0.
.PP
.BR highlight
defines the maximum input value that produces an output value smaller than
maxout.  highlight has to be in the range [0..maxin], highlight has to be
larger than shadow. Its default value is the same as maxin (16383 if not set).
.PP
.BR maxin
defines the size of the gamma table. The size depends on the scanner/backend.
If the scanner uses 8 bits gamma input then maxin has to be set to 255, for 10
bits 1023, for 12 bits 4095, for 14 bits 16383. The default is 16383.  To find
out what value maxin has to be call scanimage with a very large gamma table
[0]0-[99999]255 then scanimage prints an error message with the needed size of
the gamma table.
.PP
.BR maxout
defines the maximum output value. Take a look at the output of scanimage \-h to
find out what maxout has to be. The default value is 255.
.PP
.SH EXAMPLE
.B scanimage \-\-custom\-gamma=yes \-\-gamma\-table 
.I `gamma4scanimage 1.8 0 11500 16383 255`
>image.pnm

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR scanimage (1)

.SH AUTHOR
Oliver Rauch

.SH EMAIL-CONTACT
Oliver.Rauch@Rauch-Domain.DE
