.TH sane\-epson2 5 "22 Jan 2009" "" "SANE Scanner Access Now Easy"
.IX sane\-epson2
.SH NAME
sane\-epson2 \- SANE backend for EPSON scanners
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B sane\-epson2
library implements a SANE (Scanner Access Now Easy) backend that
provides access to Epson flatbed scanners.  This library supports
a similar set of scanners as the sane\-epson driver but was
developed to support a wider range of connections to the scanner;
include network access.
.PP
Because
.B sane\-epson
and 
.B sane\-epson2 
drivers support many of the same devices, if one
driver gives you problems you may try disabling it to try the other.
This can be done by removing the driver name from the 
.I dll.conf
or perhaps by commenting out the options in
.I epson.conf
or
.I epson2.conf.
.PP
At present, the following scanners are known to work with this backend:
.PP
.RS
.ft CR
.nf
Model:                       Connection Type
---------------------------  -------------------
ActionScanner II             SCSI, parallel
AcuLaser CX11 Series         USB, Network
AcuLaser CX21 Series         USB, Network
CX-3200                      USB
CX-3600                      USB
CX-3650                      USB
CX-4050                      USB
CX-4600                      USB
CX-4800                      USB
CX-5000                      USB
CX-5200                      USB
CX-5400                      USB
CX-6300                      USB
CX-6400                      USB
CX-6500                      USB
CX-6600                      USB
DX-3800                      USB
DX-5000                      USB
DX-5050                      USB
DX-6000                      USB
DX-7400                      USB
ES-300C                      SCSI, parallel
ES-300GS                     SCSI
ES-600C                      parallel
ES-1200C                     parallel
Expression 636               SCSI
Expression 800               SCSI
Expression 1600              USB, SCSI, IEEE-1394
Expression 1680              USB, SCSI, IEEE-1394
FilmScan 200                 SCSI
GT-5000                      SCSI, parallel
GT-5500                      SCSI
GT-6000                      parallel
GT-6500                      parallel
GT-7000                      SCSI
GT-8000                      SCSI
GT-8500                      SCSI
Perfection 610               USB
Perfection 636S              SCSI
Perfection 636U              USB
Perfection 640               USB
Perfection 1200S             SCSI
Perfection 1200U             USB
Perfection 1240              USB, SCSI
Perfection 1640              USB, SCSI
Perfection 1650              USB
Perfection 1660              USB
Perfection 2400              USB
Perfection 2450              USB, IEEE-1394
Perfection 3200              USB
Perfection 4870              USB
Perfection 4990              USB
RX-425                       USB
RX-500                       USB
RX-600                       USB
RX-700                       USB
V700                         USB, IEEE-1394
V750                         USB, IEEE-1394
.fi
.ft R
and many more. The official list is on the Sane web site.
.RE

For other scanners the software  may or may not work.  Please send mail to 
the sane-backend mailing list to report success with scanners not on
the list or problems with scanners that are listed. 
.SH OPTIONS
The options the backend supports can either be selected through command line
options to programs like scanimage or through GUI elements in programs like
xscanimage or xsane.

Valid command line options and their syntax can be listed by using 
.RS
scanimage \-\-help \-d epson2
.RE
Not all devices support all options.
.TP
.I Scan Mode
The 
.I \-\-mode 
switch selects the basic mode of operation of the scanner. Valid choices
are Binary, Gray and Color.  The Binary mode is black and white only,
Gray will produce 256 levels of gray or more depending on the scanner
and Color means 24 bit color mode or more depending on the scanner.
Some scanners will internally use 36 bit color, their external interface
however may only support 24 bits.

The
.I \-\-depth
option selects the bit depth the scanner is using. This option is only
available for scanners that support more than one bit depth. Older
scanners will always transfer the image in 8bit mode. Newer scanners
allow one to select either 8 bits, 12 or 14 bits per color channel. For a
color scan this means an effective color depth of 36 or 42 bits over
all three channels. The valid choices depend on the scanner model.

The
.I \-\-halftoning
switch selects the mode that is used in Binary mode. Valid options
are "None", "Halftone A (Hard Tone)", "Halftone B (Soft Tone)", "Halftone C
(Net Screen)", "Dither A (4x4 Bayer)", "Dither B (4x4 Spiral)", "Dither C
(4x4 Net Screen)", "Dither D (8x4 Net Screen)", "Text Enhanced Technology",
"Download pattern A", and "Download pattern B".

The 
.I \-\-dropout
switch selects the so called dropout color. Valid options are None,
Red, Green and Blue. The default is None. The dropout color is used for
monochrome scanning and selects the color that is not scanned. This can
be used to e.g. scan an original with a colored background.

The
.I \-\-brightness
switch controls the brightness of the scan. Valid options are integer
values from \-3 to 3. The default is 0. The larger the brightness value,
the brighter the image gets. If a user defined table for the gamma
correction is selected, the brightness parameter is not available.

The
.I \-\-sharpness
switch sets the sharpness of the image data. Valid options are integer
values from \-2 to 2, with \-2 meaning "Defocus", \-1 "Defocus slightly",
0 "Normal", 1 "Sharpen slightly" and 2 "Sharpen".

The 
.I \-\-gamma\-correction
switch controls the scanner's internal gamma correction. Valid options are
"Default", "User defined", "High density printing" "Low density printing"
and "High contrast printing".

The 
.I \-\-color\-correction
switch controls the scanner's internal color correction function. Valid
options are "No Correction", "Impact\-dot printers", "Thermal printers",
"Ink\-jet printers" and "CRT monitors". The default is "CRT monitors".

The 
.I \-\-resolution
switch selects the resolution for a scan. Some EPSON scanners will scan in
any resolution between the lowest and highest possible value. The list
reported by the scanner can be displayed using the "\-\-help \-d epson"
parameters to scanimage.

The 
.I \-\-threshold
switch selects the minimum brightness to get a white point.

The 
.I \-\-mirror
option controls the way the image is scanned. By reading the image data
from right to left the image is mirrored. Valid options are "yes" and
"no". The default is "no".

The 
.I \-\-auto\-area\-segmentation 
switch activates the automatic area segmentation for monochrome scans. The
scanner will try to determine which areas are text and which contain
images. The image areas will be halftoned, and the text will be
improved. Valid options are "yes" and "no". The default is "yes".

The 
.I \-\-red\-gamma\-table 
parameter can be used to download a user defined gamma table for the
red channel. The valid options are the same as for \-\-gamma\-table.

The 
.I \-\-green\-gamma\-table 
parameter can be used to download a user defined gamma table for the
green channel. The valid options are the same as for \-\-gamma\-table.

The 
.I \-\-blue\-gamma\-table 
parameter can be used to download a user defined gamma table for the
blue channel. The valid options are the same as for \-\-gamma\-table.

The
.I --wait-for-button
parameter can be used to wait until the button on the scanner is
pressed to actually start the scan process.

The color correction coefficients
.I \-\-cct\-1 \-\-cct\-2 \-\-cct\-3 ... \-\-cct\-9
will install color correction coefficients for the user defined color
correction. Values are specified as integers in the range \-127..127.

The 
.I \-\-preview
option requests a preview scan. The frontend software automatically selects a low 
resolution. Valid options are "yes" and "no". The default is "no".

The geometry options
.I \-l \-t \-x \-y 
control the scan area: \-l sets the top left x coordinate, \-t the top
left y coordinate, \-x selects the width and \-y the height of the scan
area. All parameters are specified in millimeters.

The
.I \-\-source
option selects the scan source. Valid options depend on the installed
options. The default is "Flatbed".

The 
.I \-\-auto\-eject
option will eject a page after scanning from the document feeder. 

The
.I \-\-film\-type
option will select the film type for scans with the transparency
unit. This option is only activated if the TPU is selected as scan
source. Valid options are "Negative Film" and "Positive Film".

The
.I \-\-focus\-position
option selects the focus position for all scans. Valid options are "Focus
2.5mm above glass" and "Focus on glass". The focus on the 2.5mm point
above the glass is necessary for scans with the transparency unit, so
that the scanner can focus on the film if one of the film holders is used.
This option is only functional for selected scanners, all other scanners
will ignore this option.

The
.I \-\-bay
option selects which bay to scan

The
.I \-\-eject
option ejects the sheet in the ADF.

The
.I \-\-adf-mode
option select the ADF mode (simplex/duplex).

.SH CONFIGURATION FILE
The configuration file /Users/mike/Documents/wine/usr/etc/sane.d/epson2.conf specifies the device(s) that the 
backend will use. Possible connection types are:
.TP
.I SCSI
This is the default, and if nothing else is specified the backend software will
open a given path as SCSI device. More information about valid syntax for SCSI
devices can be found in sane\-scsi(5).
.br
Usually SCSI scanners are configured with a line "scsi EPSON" in this file. In 
some cases it may be necessary to only use the string "scsi" (e.g. for the GT-6500).
.TP
.I PIO \- Parallel Interface
The parallel interface can be configured in two ways: An integer value starting
at the beginning of a line will be interpreted as the IO address of the parallel
port. To make it clearer that a configured IO address is a parallel port the 
port address can be preceded by the string "PIO". The PIO connection does not
use a special device file in the /dev directory. The IO address can be specified
in hex mode (prefixed with "0x").
.TP
.I USB
For USB scanners not automatically detect, their VENDOR and PRODUCT ID can
be specified manually in the config file.  
More information about valid syntax for USB devices can be found in sane\-usb(5).
.TP
.I Network
Network scanners can be auto-discovered if
.I autodiscovery
is specified after 
.I
net 
keyword.  An IP address to connect to can also be used.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /Users/mike/Documents/wine/usr/lib/sane/libsane\-epson2.a
The static library implementing this backend.
.TP
.I /Users/mike/Documents/wine/usr/lib/sane/libsane\-epson2.so
The shared library implementing this backend (present on systems that
support dynamic loading).
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B SANE_DEBUG_EPSON2
If the library was compiled with debug support enabled, this
environment variable controls the debug level for this backend.  E.g.,
a value of 128 requests all debug output to be printed.  Smaller
levels reduce verbosity.
.TP
.B SANE_DEBUG_EPSON2_SCSI
If the library was compiled with debug support enabled, this
environment variable controls the SCSI related debug level for this backend.  
Only a value of 2 is supported.
.TP
.B SANE_DEBUG_EPSON2_NET
If the library was compiled with debug support enabled, this
environment variable controls the network related debug level for this 
backend.  E.g., a value of 128 requests all debug output to be printed.  
Smaller levels reduce verbosity.
.TP
.B SANE_EPSON2_CMD_LVL
This allows one to override the function or command level that the backend
uses to communicate with the scanner. The function level a scanner
supports is determined during the initialization of the device. If
the backend does not recognize the function level reported by the 
scanner it will default to function level B3. Valid function levels
are A1, A2, B1, B2, B3, B4, B5, B6, B7, B8, D1 and F5. Use this feature
only if you know what you are doing!

.SH "SEE ALSO"

sane\-scsi(5), sane\-usb(5), scanimage(1), xscanimage(1), xsane(1)

.SH BUGS

None :-) At least none are currently known.

.SH UNSUPPORTED DEVICES
The backend may be used with Epson scanners that are not yet listed 
under the list of supported devices. A scanner that is not recognized
may default to the function level B3, which means that not all 
functions that the scanner may be capable of are accessible. 

If the scanner is not even recognized as an Epson scanner this is
probably because the device name reported by the scanner is not in the
correct format. Please send this information to the backend maintainer
(email address is in the AUTHOR section of this man page or in the
AUTHORS file of the SANE distribution). 

.SH AUTHOR

The package is written by Alessandro Zummo and is based on previous
work done by Karl Hienz Kremer in the epson package as well as based
on work by Christian Bucher and Kazuhiro Sasayama
