.TH sane\-avision 5 "11 Jul 2008" "" "SANE Scanner Access Now Easy"
.IX sane\-avision

.SH NAME
sane\-avision \- SANE backend for original Avision and Avision OEM scanners
(HP, Minolta, Mitsubishi, UMAX and possibly more) flatbed and film scanners.

.SH ABOUT THIS FILE

This file is a short description for the avision-backend shipped with SANE.

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B sane\-avision
library implements a SANE (Scanner Access Now Easy) backend that
provides access to various Avision scanners and the Avision OEM
scanners labelled by HP, Minolta, Mitsubishi or Fujitsu.

It is fully big-endian aware and in every-day use on PowerPC and SPARC
systems.

.B I suggest you hold one hand on the power-button of the scanner while
you try the first scans \- especially with film-scanners!

.SH CONFIGURATION

The configuration file for this backend resides in 
.IR /Users/mike/Documents/wine/usr/etc/sane.d/avision.conf .

Its contents is a list of device names that correspond to Avision and Avision
compatible scanners and backend-options. Empty lines and lines starting with
a hash mark (#) are ignored. A sample configuration file is shown below: 

.nf
 # this is a comment
\ 
 option force\-a4
 option force\-a3
 option skip\-adf
 option disable\-gamma\-table
 option disable\-calibration
\ 
 #scsi Vendor Model Type Bus Channel ID LUN 
 scsi AVISION
 scsi HP
 scsi /dev/scanner
 usb 0x03f0 0x0701
.fi

.TP
force\-a4:
Forces the backend to overwrite the scanable area
returned by the scanner to ISO A4. Scanner that are
known to return bogus data are marked in the backend
so if you need this option please report this to the
backend maintainer. USE WITH CARE!
.TP
force\-a3:
Forces the backend to overwrite the scanable area
returned by the scanner to ISO A3. Scanner that are
known to return bogus data are marked in the backend
so if you need this option please report this to the
backend maintainer. USE WITH CARE!
.TP
skip\-adf:
Forces the backend to ignore an inconsistent ADF
status returned by the scanner (ADF not present, but
ADF model number non-zero).  Without this option, the
backend will make several attempts to reset the ADF
and retry the query in this situation, and will fail
with a "not supported" error if the ADF still doesn't
respond.
.TP
disable\-gamma\-table:
Disables the usage of the scanner's gamma-table. You
might try this if your scans hang or only produces
random garbage.
.TP
disable\-calibration:
Disables the scanner's color calibration. You
might try this if your scans hang or only produces
random garbage.
.TP
Note:
Any option above modifies the default code-flow
for your scanner. The options should only be used
when you encounter problems with the default be-
haviour of the backend. Please report the need of
options to the backend-author so the backend can
be fixed as soon as possible.

.SH "DEVICE NAMES"
This backend expects device names of the form:
.PP
.RS
.I scsi scsi-spec

.I usb usb-spec
.RE
.PP
Where
.I scsi-spec
is the path-name to a special device or a device ID for the device that
corresponds to a SCSI scanner. The special device name must be a generic
SCSI device or a symlink to such a device, for example on Linux "/dev/sga"
or "/dev/sg0". The device ID is the ID returned by the scanner, for example
"HP" or "AVISION". See sane\-scsi(5) for details.
.TP
Note:
Since the backend now includes native USB access,
it is no longer needed \- even considered obsolete \-
to access USB scanner via the SCSI emulation (named
hpusbscsi on Linux) for Avision USB devices such as
the HP 53xx, HP 74xx or Minolta film-scanners.
.PP
.I usb-spec
is the USB device name, the vendor/product ID pair or the name used by
libusb corresponding to the USB scanner. For example "0x03f0 0x0701" or
"libusb:002:003". See sane\-usb(5) for details.

The program
.IR sane\-find\-scanner 
helps to find out the correct scsi or usb device name.

A list with supported devices is built into the avision backend so
normally specifying an ID should not be necessary.

.SH FILES
.TP
.I /Users/mike/Documents/wine/usr/etc/sane.d/avision.conf
The backend configuration file (see also description of
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
below).
.TP
.I /Users/mike/Documents/wine/usr/lib/sane/libsane\-avision.a
The static library implementing this backend.
.TP
.I /Users/mike/Documents/wine/usr/lib/sane/libsane\-avision.so
The shared library implementing this backend (present on systems that
support dynamic loading).

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
This environment variable specifies the list of directories that may
contain the configuration file.  Under UNIX, the directories are
separated by a colon (`:'), under OS/2, they are separated by a
semi-colon (`;').  If this variable is not set, the configuration file
is searched in two default directories: first, the current working
directory (".") and then in /Users/mike/Documents/wine/usr/etc/sane.d.  If the value of the
environment variable ends with the directory separator character, then
the default directories are searched after the explicitly specified
directories.  For example, setting
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
to "/tmp/config:" would result in directories "tmp/config", ".", and
"/Users/mike/Documents/wine/usr/etc/sane.d" being searched (in this order).
.TP
.B SANE_DEBUG_AVISION
If the library was compiled with debug support enabled, this
environment variable controls the debug level for this backend.
Higher debug levels increase the verbosity of the output. The debug
level 7 is the author's preferred value to debug backend problems.

Example: 
export SANE_DEBUG_AVISION=7

.SH "SEE ALSO"
sane(7), sane\-scsi(5), sane\-usb(5)
.br
http://exactcode.com/site/open_source/saneavision/

.SH MAINTAINER
Ren\['e] Rebe
.SH AUTHOR
Ren\['e] Rebe and Meino Christian Cramer
