.TH sane\-snapscan 5 "14 Jul 2008" "" "SANE Scanner Access Now Easy"
.IX sane\-snapscan
.SH NAME
sane\-snapscan \- SANE backend for AGFA SnapScan flatbed scanners
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B sane\-snapscan
library implements a SANE (Scanner Access Now Easy) backend that provides
access to AGFA SnapScan flatbed scanners. At present, the following scanners
are supported from this backend: AGFA SnapScan 300, 310, 600, and 1236s,
1236u, 1212u, e20, e25,
e40, e50, e60, Vuego 310s, Acer 300f, 310s, 610s, 610plus, Prisa 620s, Prisa
620u, Prisa 620ut, Prisa 640u, Prisa 640bu, Prisa 1240, Prisa 3300, Prisa
4300, Prisa 5300 and Guillemot Maxi Scan A4 Deluxe (SCSI) (with
varying success).
.PP

.SH "DEVICE NAMES"
This backend expects device names of the form:
.PP
.RS
.I special
.RE
.PP
Where
.I special
is the path-name for the special device that corresponds to a
SCSI scanner. For SCSI
scanners, the special device name must be a generic SCSI device or a
symlink to such a device.  Under Linux, such a device name could be
.I /dev/sga
or
.IR /dev/sge ,
for example.  See sane\-scsi(5) for details.
.P
For USB scanners the devicename must contain the keyword "usb", as in 
.I /dev/usbscanner 
or
.IR /dev/usb/scanner0 .
For scanners that need a firmware upload before scanning add a line starting
with "firmware" followed by the fully qualified path to your firmware file,
e.g.
.PP
.RS
firmware /Users/mike/Documents/wine/usr/share/sane/snapscan/firmware.bin
.RE
.PP
For further details read http://snapscan.sourceforge.net.

.SH CONFIGURATION
The contents of the
.I snapscan.conf
file is a list of device names that correspond to SnapScan
scanners.  Empty lines and lines starting with a hash mark (#) are
ignored.  See sane\-scsi(5) on details of what constitutes a valid
device name.

.SH FILES
.TP
.I /Users/mike/Documents/wine/usr/etc/sane.d/snapscan.conf
The backend configuration file (see also description of
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
below).
.TP
.I /Users/mike/Documents/wine/usr/lib/sane/libsane\-snapscan.a
The static library implementing this backend.
.TP
.I /Users/mike/Documents/wine/usr/lib/sane/libsane\-snapscan.so
The shared library implementing this backend (present on systems that
support dynamic loading).
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
This environment variable specifies the list of directories that may
contain the configuration file.  Under UNIX, the directories are
separated by a colon (`:'), under OS/2, they are separated by a
semi-colon (`;').  If this variable is not set, the configuration file
is searched in two default directories: first, the current working
directory (".") and then in /Users/mike/Documents/wine/usr/etc/sane.d.  If the value of the
environment variable ends with the directory separator character, then
the default directories are searched after the explicitly specified
directories.  For example, setting
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
to "/tmp/config:" would result in directories "tmp/config", ".", and
"/Users/mike/Documents/wine/usr/etc/sane.d" being searched (in this order).
.TP
.B SANE_DEBUG_SNAPSCAN
If the library was compiled with debug support enabled, this
environment variable controls the debug level for this backend.  E.g.,
a value of 255 requests all debug output to be printed.  Smaller
levels reduce verbosity.


.SH BUGS
Man page doesn't provide much information yet.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
sane(7), sane\-scsi(5)
.br
http://www.cs.ualberta.ca/~charter/SnapScan/snapscan.html
.br
http://sourceforge.net/projects/snapscan/ (new development website)

.SH AUTHOR
Kevin Charter, Franck Schneider, Michel Roelofs, Emmanuel Blot,
Mikko Tyolajarvi, David Mosberger-Tang, Wolfgang Goeller,
Petter Reinholdtsen, Gary Plewa, Sebastien Sable, Oliver Schwartz
and Mikael Magnusson.
.br
Man page by Henning Meier-Geinitz (mostly based on the web pages and 
source code).
