.TH sane\-umax1220u 5 "14 Jul 2008" "" "SANE Scanner Access Now Easy"
.IX sane\-umax
.SH NAME
sane\-umax1220u \- SANE backend for the UMAX Astra 1220U and similar scanners

.SH DESCRIPTION

The
.B sane\-umax1220
library implements a SANE (Scanner Access Now Easy) backend for the
the UMAX Astra 1220U and similar scanners.

For more information on this backend, please visit
.IR http://umax1220u\-sane.sourceforge.net/ .

.SH UMAX ASTRA 1600U/2000U/2100U SUPPORT

This backend is also able to drive the UMAX Astra 1600U/2000U/2100U.  The
2100U is confirmed to work. For the other scanners no reports have been received
yet. Please contact us and tell us if your scanner works
(sane\-devel@lists.alioth.debian.org).

.SH CONFIGURATION

Usually, no manual configuration is necessary. The configuration file for this backend resides in
.IR /Users/mike/Documents/wine/usr/etc/sane.d/umax1220u.conf .

Its contents is a list of device names that correspond to UMAX Astra scanners.
Empty lines and lines starting with a hash mark (#) are ignored. A sample
configuration file is shown below: 

.nf
 #usb vendor product
 usb 0x1606 0x0010
 # Device list for non-linux systems
 /dev/scanner 
 /dev/usb/scanner0
.fi

See sane\-usb(5) for information on how to set the access permissions on the usb
device files.

.SH FILES

.TP
The backend configuration file:
.I /Users/mike/Documents/wine/usr/etc/sane.d/umax1220u.conf
.TP
The static library implementing this backend:
.I /Users/mike/Documents/wine/usr/lib/sane/libsane\-umax1220u.a
.TP
The shared library implementing this backend:
.I /Users/mike/Documents/wine/usr/lib/sane/libsane\-umax1220u.so
(present on systems that support dynamic loading)

.SH ENVIRONMENT

.TP
.B SANE_DEBUG_UMAX1220U
If the library was compiled with debug support enabled, this environment
variable controls the debug level for this backend. E.g., a value of 128
requests all debug output to be printed. Smaller levels reduce verbosity:

SANE_DEBUG_UMAX1220U values

.ft CR
.nf
Number  Remark
\ 
 1       print failures
 2       print information
 3       print high-level function calls
 4       print high-level function checkpoints
 9       print mid-level function calls
 10      print mid-level function checkpoints
 80      print protocol-level function entry
 90      print protocol-level function exit
.fi
.ft R

.TP
Example:
export SANE_DEBUG_UMAX1220U=10

.SH KNOWN BUGS

600 dpi scanning may fail for large image sizes.

If you keep getting I/O errors, try cycling the power on your scanner to reset it.

There is no way to cancel a scan, since the driver ignores sane_cancel().

If you try scanning an image which is too small, you will get I/O errors. Be
sure to adjust the scan area before doing a scan, since by default, the scan
area is zero.

.SH SEE ALSO
sane(7), sane\-usb(5)

.TP
(Old) homepage:
.I http://umax1220u\-sane.sourceforge.net/

.SH AUTHOR

Marcio Luis Teixeira <marciot@users.sourceforge.net>

.SH EMAIL-CONTACT
sane\-devel@lists.alioth.debian.org

.SH REPORTING BUGS

This backend isn't actively maintained. Nevertheless, bug reports and comments
should be sent to the sane\-devel mailing list.  When reporting bugs, please run
the backend with SANE_DEBUG_UMAX1220U set to 10 and attach a copy of the log
messages.
