.TH sane\-agfafocus 5 "10 Jul 2008" "" "SANE Scanner Access Now Easy"
.IX sane\-agfafocus
.SH NAME
sane\-agfafocus \- SANE backend for AGFA Focus flatbed scanners
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B sane\-agfafocus
library implements a SANE (Scanner Access Now Easy) backend that
provides access to AGFA Focus flatbed scanners. At present, the following
scanners are supported from this backend:
.PP
.RS
AGFA Focus GS Scanner (6 bit gray scale) (untested)
.br
AGFA Focus Lineart Scanner (lineart) (untested)
.br
AGFA Focus II (8 bit gray scale) (untested)
.br
AGFA Focus Color (24 bit color 3-pass)
.br
AGFA Focus Color Plus (24 bit color 3-pass)
.br
.PP
Siemens S9036 (8 bit gray scale) (untested)
.br
.RE
.PP
The driver supports line art, 6bpp and 8bpp gray, 18bpp and 24bpp
color scans.
.PP
If you own a scanner other than the ones listed above that works with
this backend, please let us know by sending the scanner's model name,
SCSI id, and firmware revision to
.IR sane\-devel@lists.alioth.debian.org .
Have a look at http://www.sane\-project.org/mailing\-lists.html
concerning subscription to sane\-devel.
.PP
All of these scanners are pre-SCSI-2, and do not even report properly
to SCSI Inquiry.  This is typically evident in SCSI bus scans, where
the scanner will come up with only garbage as vendor and models strings.

.SH "DEVICE NAMES"
This backend expects device names of the form:
.PP
.RS
.I special
.RE
.PP
Where
.I special
is either the path-name for the special device that corresponds to a
SCSI scanner. For SCSI scanners, the special device name must be a
generic SCSI device or a symlink to such a device.  Under Linux, such
a device name could be
.I /dev/sga
or
.IR /dev/sge ,
for example.  See sane\-scsi(5) for details.
.SH CONFIGURATION
The contents of the
.I agfafocus.conf
file is a list of device names that correspond to AGFA Focus
scanners.  Empty lines and lines starting with a hash mark (#) are
ignored.  A sample configuration file is shown below:
.PP
.RS
/dev/scanner
.br
# this is a comment
.br
/dev/sge
.RE

.PP
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/sane.d/agfafocus.conf
The backend configuration file (see also description of
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
below).
.TP
.I /usr/lib/libsane\-agfafocus.a
The static library implementing this backend.
.TP
.I /usr/lib/libsane\-agfafocus.so
The shared library implementing this backend (present on systems that
support dynamic loading).
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
This environment variable specifies the list of directories that may
contain the configuration file.  Under UNIX, the directories are
separated by a colon (`:'), under OS/2, they are separated by a
semi-colon (`;').  If this variable is not set, the configuration file
is searched in two default directories: first, the current working
directory (".") and then in /etc/sane.d.  If the value of the
environment variable ends with the directory separator character, then
the default directories are searched after the explicitly specified
directories.  For example, setting
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
to "/tmp/config:" would result in directories "tmp/config", ".", and
"/etc/sane.d" being searched (in this order).
.TP
.B SANE_DEBUG_AGFAFOCUS
If the library was compiled with debug support enabled, this environment
variable controls the debug level for this backend. E.g., a value of 128
requests all debug output to be printed. Smaller levels reduce verbosity.
SANE_DEBUG_AGFAFOCUS values:

.sp 
.ft CR
.nf
Number  Remark
\ 
 0       print important errors (printed each time)
 1       print errors
 2       print sense
 3       print warnings
 4       print scanner-inquiry
 5       print information
 6       print less important information
 7       print called procedures
 8       print reader_process messages
 10      print called sane\-init-routines
 11      print called sane\-procedures
 12      print sane infos
 13      print sane option-control messages
.fi
.ft R

.SH MISSING FUNCTIONALITY

Uploading of dither matrices and tonecurves has been implemented, but
so far has not proven to be useful for anything.  For this reason
these options have been disabled.

.SH BUGS
The scanners that do not support disconnect have problems with SCSI
timeouts if the SCSI bus gets loaded, eg. if you do a kernel build at
the same time as scanning.  To see if your scanner supports
disconnect, run "SANE_DEBUG_AGFAFOCUS=128 scanimage \-L" in sh and look
for the "disconnect:" line)

.SH DEBUG
If you have problems with SANE not detecting your scanner, make sure the
Artec backend is disabled.  Somehow, this backend causes at least my scanner
not to respond correctly to SCSI inquiry commands.
.PP
If you encounter a bug please set the environment variable
SANE_DEBUG_AGFAFOCUS to 128 and try to regenerate the problem. Then
send me a report with the log attached.
.PP
If you encounter a SCSI bus error or trimmed and/or displaced images please
also set the environment variable SANE_DEBUG_SANEI_SCSI to 128 before sending 
me the report.

.SH TODO
.TP
.B More scanners?

The AGFA ACS and ARCUS scanners are similar to the FOCUS scanners.
The driver could probably be extended to support these scanners
without too many changes.  I do not have access to such scanners, and
cannot add support for it.  However, if you are in possession of such
a scanner, I could be helpful in adding support for these scanners.

The AGFA HORIZON scanners are SCSI-2 scanners, and it would probably
be easier to support these scanners in a SCSI-2 compliant backend.
.SH SEE ALSO
sane(7), sane\-scsi(5)

.SH AUTHOR

Ingo Schneider and Karl Anders \[/O]ygard.

