.TH sane\-ma1509 5 "13 Jul 2008" "" "SANE Scanner Access Now Easy"
.IX sane\-ma1509
.SH NAME
sane\-ma1509 \- SANE backend for Mustek BearPaw 1200F USB scanner
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B sane\-ma1509
library implements a SANE (Scanner Access Now Easy) backend that provides
access to the Mustek BearPaw 1200F USB flatbed scanner. This scanner is based
on the MA-1509 chipset. Other scanners that use this chip (if they exist) may
also work.
.PP
This backend is ALPHA software.  Be careful and remove the power plug
immediately if your hear unusual noises.
.PP
More details can be found on the ma1509 backend homepage 
.IR http://www.meier\-geinitz.de/sane/ma1509\-backend/ .
.PP
Other Mustek USB scanners are supported by the gt68xx, mustek_usb and the
plustek backends. See
.BR sane\-mustek_usb (5),
.BR sane\-gt68xx (5)
and
.BR sane\-plustek (5)
for details.
.PP
This backend can only work with scanners that are already detected by the
operating system. See 
.BR sane\-usb (5)
for details.
.PP
If you own a scanner other than the Mustek BearPaw 1200F that works with this
backend, please let me know this by sending the scanner's exact model name and
the USB vendor and device ids (e.g. from
.I /proc/bus/usb/devices
or syslog) to me.

.SH "DEVICE NAMES"
This backend expects device names of the form:
.PP
.RS
.I special
.RE
.PP
Where
.I special
is a path-name for the special device that corresponds to a USB scanner.
With Linux, such a device name could be
.I /dev/usb/scanner0
or
.IR libusb:001:002 ,
for example.
.PP

.SH CONFIGURATION
The contents of the
.I ma1509.conf
file is a list of options and device names that correspond to Mustek BearPaw
1200F scanners.  Empty lines and lines starting with a hash mark (#) are
ignored.
.PP
Instead of using the device name, the scanner can be autodetected by 
.B "usb vendor_id product_id"
statements which are already included into
.IR ma1509.conf .
This is only supported with Linux 2.4.8 and higher and all systems that
support libsub. "vendor_id" and "product_id" are hexadecimal numbers that
identify the scanner. If this doesn't work, a device name must be placed in
.I ma1509.conf 
as described above.
.PP
To set the time the lamp needs for warm-up, use
.B option
.B warmup-time
in 
.IR ma1509.conf .
The time is given in seconds after the option. The default is 30 seconds.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /Users/mike/Documents/wine/usr/etc/sane.d/ma1509.conf
The backend configuration file (see also description of
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
below).
.TP
.I /Users/mike/Documents/wine/usr/lib/sane/libsane\-ma1509.a
The static library implementing this backend.
.TP
.I /Users/mike/Documents/wine/usr/lib/sane/libsane\-ma1509.so
The shared library implementing this backend (present on systems that
support dynamic loading).
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
This environment variable specifies the list of directories that may
contain the configuration file.  Under UNIX, the directories are
separated by a colon (`:'), under OS/2, they are separated by a
semi-colon (`;').  If this variable is not set, the configuration file
is searched in two default directories: first, the current working
directory (".") and then in /Users/mike/Documents/wine/usr/etc/sane.d.  If the value of the
environment variable ends with the directory separator character, then
the default directories are searched after the explicitly specified
directories.  For example, setting
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
to "/tmp/config:" would result in directories "tmp/config", ".", and
"/Users/mike/Documents/wine/usr/etc/sane.d" being searched (in this order).
.TP
.B SANE_DEBUG_MA1509
If the library was compiled with debug support enabled, this
environment variable controls the debug level for this backend.  Higher
debug levels increase the verbosity of the output. 

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR sane (7),
.BR sane\-usb (5),
.BR sane\-gt68xx (5),
.BR sane\-plustek (5),
.BR sane\-mustek_usb (5),
.BR sane\-mustek (5),
.BR sane\-mustek_pp (5),
.br
.I http://www.meier\-geinitz.de/sane/ma1509\-backend/

.SH AUTHOR
Henning Meier-Geinitz <henning@meier\-geinitz.de>

.SH BUGS
Resolutions higher than 600 dpi don't work
.br
Transparency adapter and automatic document feeder is not supported yet
.br
No support for "high-speed" mode (jpeg)
.PP
More detailed bug information is available at the MA-1509 backend homepage
.IR http://www.meier\-geinitz.de/sane/ma1509-backend/ .
