.TH sane\-dmc 5 "13 Jul 2008" "" "SANE Scanner Access Now Easy"
.IX sane\-dmc
.SH NAME
sane\-dmc \- SANE backend for the Polaroid Digital Microscope Camera
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B sane\-dmc
library implements a SANE (Scanner Access Now Easy) backend that
provides access to the Polaroid Digital Microscope Camera.
.SH "DEVICE NAMES"
This backend expects device names of the form:
.PP
.RS
.I special
.RE
.PP
Where
.I special
is the UNIX path-name for the special device that corresponds to the
scanner.  The special device name must be a generic SCSI device or a
symlink to such a device.  Under Linux, such a device name could be
.I /dev/sga
or
.IR /dev/sge ,
for example.
.SH IMAGING MODES
The Polaroid DMC supports a number of imaging modes.  This driver supports
five of the imaging modes:
.PP
.TP
.B Full Frame
This mode corresponds to the 801-by-600 pixel full-color full-frame image.
.TP
.B Viewfinder
This mode corresponds to the 270-by-201 pixel grey-scale viewfinder image.
This image is acquired very quickly.
.TP
.B Raw
This mode corresponds to the 1599-by-600 pixel "raw" image from the
CCD.  It is grey-scale, with pixels alternating horizontally between
red, green and blue stripes.  The pixels are twice as high as they are
wide, so the image is distorted.
.TP
.B Thumbnail
This mode corresponds to the 80-by-60 pixel full-color thumbnail image.
.TP
.B Super Resolution
This image is a 1599-by-1200 pixel full-color image constructed by filtering
and interpolating the "raw" image.  The filtering and interpolation is
done in software, so this mode is very slow.  Also, this mode places
restrictions on how the image is read which means that the "preview" mode
of xscanimage does not work in Super Resolution mode.  (xcam and the
non-preview modes of scanimage and xscanimage work fine, however.)
.PP
.SH OTHER SETTINGS
.TP
.B ASA Setting
This setting adjusts the camera's sensitivity.  You can choose one of
25, 50, or 100 "equivalent" ASA.
.TP
.B Shutter Speed
You can select a shutter speed from 8 to 1000 milliseconds.  The shutter
speed is quantized in units of 32 microseconds.
.TP
.B White Balance
You can choose one of "Daylight", "Incandescent" or "Fluorescent"
white balances.  This setting more-or-less corresponds to the
"Color Temperature" settings on Polaroid's Windows and Mac software.
.SH CONFIGURATION
The contents of the
.I dmc.conf
file is a list of device names that correspond to DMC
scanners.  Empty lines and lines starting with a hash mark (#) are
ignored.  A sample configuration file is shown below:
.PP
.RS
/dev/scanner
.br
# this is a comment
.br
/dev/sge
.RE
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /Users/mike/Documents/wine/usr/etc/sane.d/dmc.conf
The backend configuration file (see also description of
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
below).
.TP
.I /Users/mike/Documents/wine/usr/lib/sane/libsane\-dmc.a
The static library implementing this backend.
.TP
.I /Users/mike/Documents/wine/usr/lib/sane/libsane\-dmc.so
The shared library implementing this backend (present on systems that
support dynamic loading).
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
This environment variable specifies the list of directories that may
contain the configuration file.  Under UNIX, the directories are
separated by a colon (`:'), under OS/2, they are separated by a
semi-colon (`;').  If this variable is not set, the configuration file
is searched in two default directories: first, the current working
directory (".") and then in /Users/mike/Documents/wine/usr/etc/sane.d.  If the value of the
environment variable ends with the directory separator character, then
the default directories are searched after the explicitly specified
directories.  For example, setting
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
to "/tmp/config:" would result in directories "tmp/config", ".", and
"/Users/mike/Documents/wine/usr/etc/sane.d" being searched (in this order).
.TP
.B SANE_DEBUG_DMC
If the library was compiled with debug support enabled, this
environment variable controls the debug level for this backend.  E.g.,
a value of 128 requests all debug output to be printed.  Smaller
levels reduce verbosity.
.SH BUGS
In the "Full Frame" and "Raw" modes, images must be read in units
of entire lines.  The driver performs no buffering in these modes;
if you ask sane_read to read a non-integral number of lines, it
may read less than you ask for.  If you ask sane_read to read
less than a single line, it returns SANE_STATUS_INVAL.
.PP
In the "Super Resolution" mode, images must be read in units of
\fItwo\fR lines (3198 pixels or 9594 bytes.)  If you try to read less
than two lines, you get SANE_STATUS_INVAL.  The Super Resolution mode
is very slow.
.PP
In the "Viewfinder" and "Thumbnail" modes, the entire image must
be read in one SCSI transfer.  In this case, the driver performs
buffering and you can read the image in as small an increment as you
like.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
sane(7), sane\-scsi(5)
.SH AUTHOR
David F. Skoll
.PP
The backend is derived from
.BR sane\-hp
by David Mosberger
