.TH sane\-dc25 5 "11 Jul 2008" "" "SANE Scanner Access Now Easy"
.IX sane\-dc25
.SH NAME
sane\-dc25 \- SANE backend for Kodak DC20/DC25 Digital Cameras
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B sane\-dc25
library implements a SANE (Scanner Access Now Easy) backend that
provides access to Kodak DC20 and DC25 cameras.  At present, only
the DC25 has been tested, but since the code is based on a DC20
interface program, it is likely to work for that model also.
.SH "DEVICE NAMES"
The current version of the backend only allows one camera to be
connected.  The device name is always "0".
.SH CONFIGURATION
The contents of the
.I dc25.conf
specify the serial port and baud rate to use.  The baud rate 
specifies the maximum rate to use while downloading pictures.  (The
camera is always initialized using 9600 baud, then switches to the
higher rate).  On my 90MHz Pentium, I usually have no problems downloading
at 115200 baud as long as the system is not excessively busy and 
the "interrupt-unmask flag" is set in the IDE driver (hdparm \-u1).
Supported baud rates are: 9600, 19200, 38400, 57600, and 115200.
.PP
The dumpinquiry line causes some information about the camera to 
be printed to stderr during startup.  Note:  This is not compatible
with saned, so make sure you don't have any dumpinquiry lines if you are
using saned (i.e. scanning on a remote machine using a
network).
.PP
Empty lines and lines starting with a hash mark (#) are
ignored.  A sample configuration file is shown below:
.PP
.RS
port=/dev/ttyS0
.br
# this is a comment
.br
baud=115200
.br
dumpinquiry
.RE
.PP
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /Users/mike/Documents/wine/usr/etc/sane.d/dc25.conf
The backend configuration file (see also description of
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
below).
.TP
.I /Users/mike/Documents/wine/usr/lib/sane/libsane\-dc25.a
The static library implementing this backend.
.TP
.I /Users/mike/Documents/wine/usr/lib/sane/libsane\-dc25.so
The shared library implementing this backend (present on systems that
support dynamic loading).

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
This environment variable specifies the list of directories that may
contain the configuration file.  Under UNIX, the directories are
separated by a colon (`:'), under OS/2, they are separated by a
semi-colon (`;').  If this variable is not set, the configuration file
is searched in two default directories: first, the current working
directory (".") and then in /Users/mike/Documents/wine/usr/etc/sane.d.  If the value of the
environment variable ends with the directory separator character, then
the default directories are searched after the explicitly specified
directories.  For example, setting
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
to "/tmp/config:" would result in directories "tmp/config", ".", and
"/Users/mike/Documents/wine/usr/etc/sane.d" being searched (in this order).
.TP
.B SANE_DEBUG_DC25
If the library was compiled with debugging support enabled, this
environment variable controls the debug level for this backend. 
A value of 128 requests maximally copious debug output; smaller
levels reduce verbosity.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
sane(7)

.SH AUTHOR
Peter Fales, dc25\-devel@fales\-lorenz.net

.SH BUGS
Known bugs/limitations are:
.PP
I haven't figured out how to trigger an option reload following a "scan."
This causes problems when a new picture is snapped for example, the
slider that is used to select the picture from the camera may not be
updated immediately.
.PP
More general comments, suggestions, and inquiries about frontends
or SANE should go to the SANE Developers mailing list 
(see http://www.sane\-project.org/mailing\-lists.html for details). 
You must be subscribed to the list, otherwise your mail won't be
sent to the subscribers.
