.TH sane\-sceptre 5 "11 Jul 2008" "" "SANE Scanner Access Now Easy"
.IX sane\-sceptre
.SH NAME
sane\-sceptre \- SANE backend for SCEPTRE scanners
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B sane\-sceptre
library implements a SANE (Scanner Access Now Easy) backend that
provides access to Sceptre flatbed scanners. This backend should be
considered
.B beta-quality
software! Please report any strange behavior to the maintainer of the
backend or to the SANE mailing list.
.PP
At present, only one scanner is known to work with this backend:
.PP
.RS
.ft CR
.nf
Model                        Connection Type
---------------------------  -------------------
Sceptre VividScan S1200      SCSI
.fi
.ft R
.RE

The make of this scanner is KINPO, so other scanners from that manufacturer may also work (eg. the S600).
.SH OPTIONS
The options the backend supports can either be selected through command line
options to programs like scanimage or through GUI elements in xscanimage or xsane.

Valid command line options and their syntax can be listed by using 
.RS
scanimage \-\-help \-d sceptre
.RE

.TP
.B Scan Mode

.TP
.B \-\-mode 
selects the basic mode of operation of the scanner valid choices are 
.I Lineart, Halftone, Gray and Color. 
The Lineart and Halftone mode are black and white only (1 bit). Gray
will produce 256 levels of gray (8 bits). Color will produce a 24 bits
color image. The scanner supports 30 bits internally but it only
exports 24.

.TP
.B \-\-resolution
selects the resolution for a scan. The scanner can do several
resolutions between 50 and 1200.

.TP
.B \-\-halftone\-pattern
selects the pattern mode that is used in Halftone mode. Valid options
are 1, 2, 3 and 4.

.TP 
.B \-\-gamma\-correction
controls the scanner internal gamma correction. Valid options are
"Default", "User defined", "High density printing" "Low density
printing" and "High contrast printing".

.TP
.B \-\-custom\-gamma
(color mode only) allows the user to specify a gamma table (see the
next 3 parameters).

.TP 
.B \-\-red\-gamma\-table 
(color mode only) can be used to download a user defined
gamma table for the red channel. The table must be 256 bytes long.

.TP 
.B \-\-green\-gamma\-table 
(color mode only) can be used to download a user defined
gamma table for the green channel. The table must be 256 bytes long.

.TP
.B \-\-blue\-gamma\-table 
(color mode only) can be used to download a user defined gamma table
for the blue channel. The table must be 256 bytes long.

.TP
.B \-\-threshold
sets the threshold for black and white pixels in lineart
mode. Possible values are from 0 (darker) to 255 (lighter).

.TP 
.B \-\-preview
requests a preview scan. The resolution used for that scan is 30 dpi
and the scan area is the maximum allowed. The scan mode is user
selected. The default is "no".

.TP
.B The geometry options

.TP
.B \-l \-t \-x \-y 
control the scan area: \-l sets the top left x coordinate, \-t the top
left y coordinate, \-x selects the width and \-y the height of the scan
area. All parameters are specified in millimeters by default.


.SH CONFIGURATION FILE
The configuration file /Users/mike/Documents/wine/usr/etc/sane.d/sceptre.conf supports only one information: the device name to use (eg /dev/scanner).


.SH FILES
.TP
.I /Users/mike/Documents/wine/usr/lib/sane/libsane\-sceptre.a
The static library implementing this backend.
.TP
.I /Users/mike/Documents/wine/usr/lib/sane/libsane\-sceptre.so
The shared library implementing this backend (present on systems that
support dynamic loading).


.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B SANE_DEBUG_SCEPTRE
If the library was compiled with debug support enabled, this
environment variable controls the debug level for this backend. E.g.,
a value of 128 requests all debug output to be printed. Smaller levels
reduce verbosity.


.SH LIMITATIONS
.TP
.B Resolutions
The windows TWAIN driver can be set to any resolution between 50 to 1200
(excluding software interpolation). This backend cannot. Only a
handful of resolution are available, although they should be numerous
enough.


.SH BUGS

None known.


.SH "SEE ALSO"

sane\-scsi(5), scanimage(1), xscanimage(1), xsane(1), sane(7)


.SH AUTHOR

.TP
The package is actively maintained by Frank Zago.
.I http://www.zago.net/sane/#sceptre
