.TH sane\-epsonds 5 "29 Mar 2015" "" "SANE Scanner Access Now Easy"
.IX sane\-epsonds
.SH NAME
sane\-epsonds \- SANE backend for EPSON ESC/I-2 scanners
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B sane\-epsonds
library implements a SANE (Scanner Access Now Easy) backend that
provides access to Epson ESC/I-2 scanners.
.PP
Valid command line options and their syntax can be listed by using 
.RS
scanimage \-\-help \-d epsonds
.RE
Not all devices support all options.
.TP
.I Scan Mode
The 
.I \-\-mode 
switch selects the basic mode of operation of the scanner. Valid choices
are Lineart, Gray and Color. The Lineart mode is black and white only,
Gray will produce 256 levels of gray or more depending on the scanner
and Color means 24 bit color mode or more depending on the scanner.
Some scanners will internally use 36 bit color, their external interface
however may only support 24 bits.

The
.I \-\-depth
option selects the bit depth the scanner is using. This option is only
available for scanners that support more than one bit depth. Older
scanners will always transfer the image in 8bit mode. Newer scanners
allow one to select either 8 bits, 12 or 14 bits per color channel. For a
color scan this means an effective color depth of 36 or 42 bits over
all three channels. The valid choices depend on the scanner model.

The 
.I \-\-resolution
switch selects the resolution for a scan. Some EPSON scanners will scan in
any resolution between the lowest and highest possible value. The list
reported by the scanner can be displayed using the "\-\-help \-d epson"
parameters to scanimage.

The geometry options
.I \-l \-t \-x \-y 
control the scan area: \-l sets the top left x coordinate, \-t the top
left y coordinate, \-x selects the width and \-y the height of the scan
area. All parameters are specified in millimeters.

The
.I \-\-source
option selects the scan source. Valid options depend on the installed
options. The default is "Flatbed".

The
.I \-\-eject
option ejects the sheet in the ADF.

The
.I \-\-adf-mode
option select the ADF mode (simplex/duplex).

.SH CONFIGURATION FILE
The configuration file /Users/mike/Documents/wine/usr/etc/sane.d/epsonds.conf specifies the device(s) that the 
backend will use. Possible connection types are:
.TP
.I USB
For not automatically detected USB scanners, their VENDOR and PRODUCT ID can
be specified manually in the config file.  
More information about valid syntax for USB devices can be found in sane\-usb(5).
.TP
.I Network (not yet supported)
Network scanners can be auto-discovered if
.I autodiscovery
is specified after 
.I
net 
keyword.  An IP address to connect to can also be used.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /Users/mike/Documents/wine/usr/lib/sane/libsane\-epsonds.a
The static library implementing this backend.
.TP
.I /Users/mike/Documents/wine/usr/lib/sane/libsane\-epsonds.so
The shared library implementing this backend (present on systems that
support dynamic loading).
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B SANE_DEBUG_EPSONDS
If the library was compiled with debug support enabled, this
environment variable controls the debug level for this backend.  E.g.,
a value of 128 requests all debug output to be printed.  Smaller
levels reduce verbosity. Values around 11-16 will usuallybe enough for
a bug report.

.SH "SEE ALSO"

sane\-usb(5), scanimage(1), xscanimage(1), xsane(1)

.SH AUTHOR

The package is written by Alessandro Zummo
