.TH sane\-plustek 5 "13 Feb 2013" "" "SANE Scanner Access Now Easy"
.IX sane\-plustek
.SH NAME
sane\-plustek \- SANE backend for LM983[1/2/3] based
USB flatbed scanners
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B sane\-plustek
library implements a SANE (Scanner Access Now Easy) backend that
provides access to USB flatbed scanners based on National Semiconductor
Merlin chipsets (LM9831, 9832 and 9833).
If you're looking for parallel-port support for Plustek scanner
please refer to the
.B sane\-plustek_pp
backend.

.SH "SUPPORTED DEVICES"
The Backend is able to support USB scanner based on the National
Semiconductor chipsets LM9831, LM9832 and LM9833. The following tables
show various devices which are currently reported to work. If your
Plustek scanner has another Product ID, then the device is
.B NOT
supported by this backend.
.br

Vendor Plustek \- ID: 0x07B3
.br
.ft CR
.nf
----------------------------------------------------------
USB Model:         ASIC:  Properties:              Prod-ID
----------------------------------------------------------
OpticPro U12       LM9831  600x1200dpi 42bit 512Kb 0x0010
OpticPro UT12      LM9831  600x1200dpi 42bit 512Kb 0x0013
OpticPro UT12      LM9832  600x1200dpi 42bit 512Kb 0x0017
OpticPro UT16      LM9832  600x1200dpi 42bit 512Kb 0x0017
OpticPro U24       LM9831 1200x2400dpi 42bit   2Mb 0x0011
OpticPro U24       LM9832 1200x2400dpi 42bit   2Mb 0x0015
OpticPro UT24      LM9832 1200x2400dpi 42bit   2Mb 0x0017
.fi
.ft R
.PP

Vendor KYE/Genius \- ID: 0x0458
.br
.ft CR
.nf
----------------------------------------------------------
USB Model:         ASIC:  Properties:              Prod-ID
----------------------------------------------------------
Colorpage HR6 V2   LM9832  600x1200dpi 42bit 512Kb 0x2007
Colorpage HR6 V2   LM9832  600x1200dpi 42bit 512Kb 0x2008
Colorpage HR6A     LM9832  600x1200dpi 42bit 512Kb 0x2009
Colorpage HR7      LM9832  600x1200dpi 42bit 512Kb 0x2013
Colorpage HR7LE    LM9832  600x1200dpi 42bit 512Kb 0x2015
Colorpage HR6X     LM9832  600x1200dpi 42bit 512Kb 0x2016
.fi
.ft R
.PP

Vendor Hewlett-Packard \- ID: 0x03F0
.br
.ft CR
.nf
----------------------------------------------------------
USB Model:         ASIC:  Properties:              Prod-ID
----------------------------------------------------------
ScanJet 2100C      LM9831  600x1200dpi 42bit 512Kb 0x0505
ScanJet 2200C      LM9832  600x1200dpi 42bit 512Kb 0x0605
.fi
.ft R
.PP

Vendor Mustek \- ID: 0x0400
.br
.ft CR
.nf
----------------------------------------------------------
USB Model:         ASIC:  Properties:              Prod-ID
----------------------------------------------------------
BearPaw 1200       LM9831  600x1200dpi 42bit 512Kb 0x1000
BearPaw 1200       LM9832  600x1200dpi 42bit 512Kb 0x1001*
BearPaw 2400       LM9832 1200x2400dpi 42bit   2Mb 0x1001
.fi
.ft R
* see also description for model override switch below!
.PP

Vendor UMAX \- ID: 0x1606
.br
.ft CR
.nf
----------------------------------------------------------
USB Model:         ASIC:  Properties:              Prod-ID
----------------------------------------------------------
UMAX 3400          LM9832  600x1200dpi 42bit 512Kb 0x0050
UMAX 3400/3450     LM9832  600x1200dpi 42bit 512Kb 0x0060
UMAX 5400          LM9832 1200x2400dpi 42bit 512Kb 0x0160
.fi
.ft R
.PP

Vendor COMPAQ \- ID: 0x049F
.br
.ft CR
.nf
----------------------------------------------------------
USB Model:         ASIC:  Properties:              Prod-ID
----------------------------------------------------------
S4-100             LM9832  600x1200dpi 42bit 512Kb 0x001A
.fi
.ft R
.PP

Vendor Epson \- ID: 0x04B8
.br
.ft CR
.nf
----------------------------------------------------------
USB Model:         ASIC:  Properties:              Prod-ID
----------------------------------------------------------
Perfection 1250    LM9832 1200x2400dpi 42bit 512Kb 0x010F
Perfection 1260    LM9832 1200x2400dpi 42bit 512Kb 0x011D
.fi
.ft R
.PP

Vendor CANON \- ID: 0x04A9
.br
.ft CR
.nf
----------------------------------------------------------
USB Model:         ASIC:  Properties:              Prod-ID
----------------------------------------------------------
CanoScan N650/656U LM9832  600x1200dpi 42bit 512Kb 0x2206
CanoScan N1220U    LM9832 1200x2400dpi 42bit 512Kb 0x2207
CanoScan D660U     LM9832  600x1200dpi 42bit 512Kb 0x2208
CanoScan N670/676U LM9833  600x1200dpi 48bit 512Kb 0x220D
CanoScan N1240U    LM9833 1200x2400dpi 48bit 512Kb 0x220E
CanoScan LIDE20    LM9833  600x1200dpi 48bit 512Kb 0x220D
CanoScan LIDE25    LM9833 1200x2400dpi 48bit 512Kb 0x2220
CanoScan LIDE30    LM9833 1200x2400dpi 48bit 512Kb 0x220E
.fi
.ft R
.PP

Vendor Syscan \- ID: 0x0A82
.br
.ft CR
.nf
----------------------------------------------------------
USB Model:         ASIC:  Properties:              Prod-ID
----------------------------------------------------------
Travelscan 662     LM9833  600x1200dpi 48bit 512Kb 0x6620
Travelscan 464     LM9833  600x1200dpi 48bit 512Kb 0x4600
.fi
.ft R
.PP

Vendor Portable Peripheral Co., Ltd. \- ID: 0x0A53
.br
.ft CR
.nf
----------------------------------------------------------
USB Model:         ASIC:  Properties:              Prod-ID
----------------------------------------------------------
Q-Scan USB001      LM9832   300x600dpi 42bit 512Kb 0x1000
Q-Scan USB201      LM9832   300x600dpi 42bit 512Kb 0x2000
.fi
.ft R
.PP

Vendor Visioneer \- ID: 0x04A7
.br
.ft CR
.nf
----------------------------------------------------------
USB Model:         ASIC:  Properties:              Prod-ID
----------------------------------------------------------
Strobe XP100       LM9833  600x1200dpi 48bit 512Kb 0x0427
.fi
.ft R
.PP

.SH "OTHER PLUSTEK SCANNERS"
For parallelport device support see the
.B plustek_pp
backend.
.br
The SCSI scanner OpticPro 19200S is a rebadged Artec AM12S scanner
and is supported by the
.B Artec
backend.
.br
Only the National Semiconductor LM983[1/2/] based devices of Plustek
are supported by this backend. Older versions of the U12, the UT12,
the U1212 and U1248 (GrandTech chipset) are not supported.
.PP
.ft CR
.nf
Model             Chipset    backend
------------------------------------
U1248             GrandTech  gt68xx
UT16B             GrandTech  gt68xx
OpticSlim 1200    GrandTech  gt68xx
OpticSlim 2400    GrandTech  gt68xx
U12                P98003     u12
UT12               P98003     u12
1212U              P98003     u12
.fi
.ft R
For a more complete and up to date list see:
.B http://www.sane\-project.org/sane\-supported\-devices.html

.SH "CONFIGURATION"
To use your scanner with this backend, you need at least two
entries in the configuration file
.I /Users/mike/Documents/wine/usr/etc/sane.d/plustek.conf
.RS
.I [usb] vendor-id product-id
.br
.I device /dev/usbscanner
.RE
.PP
.I [usb]
tells the backend, that the following devicename (here
.IR /dev/usbscanner )
has to be interpreted as USB scanner device. If vendor- and
product-id has not been specified, the backend tries to
detect this by its own. If device is set to
.I auto
then the next matching device is used.
.br
The following options can be used for a default setup of
your device. Most of them are also available through
the frontend.
.PP
.B
The Options:
.PP
option warmup t
.RS
.I t
specifies the warmup period in seconds, if set to \-1, the 
automatic warmup function will be used
.RE
.PP
option lampOff t
.RS
.I t
is the time in seconds for switching off the lamps in
standby mode
.RE
.PP
option lOffonEnd b
.RS
.I b
specifies the behaviour when closing the backend, 1 --> switch
lamps off, 0 --> do not change lamp status
.RE
.PP
option mov m
.RS
.I m
is the model override switch. It works only with Mustek
BearPaw devices.
.br
.br
.ft CR
.nf
m/PID |    0x1000    |    0x1001
------+--------------+--------------
  0   | BearPaw 1200 | BearPaw 2400
  1   |  no function | BearPaw 1200
.fi
.ft R
.RE
.PP
option invertNegatives b
.RS
.I b
0 --> do not invert the picture during negativ scans,
.br
1 --> invert picture
.RE
.PP
option cacheCalData b
.RS
.I b
0 --> do not save calibration results,
.br
1 --> save results of calibration in ~/.sane/ directory
.RE
.PP
option altCalibration b
.RS
.I b
0 --> use standard calibration routines,
.br
1 --> use alternate calibration (only non Plustek devices, standard for CIS devices)
.RE
.PP
option skipFine b
.RS
.I b
0 --> perform fine calibration,
.br
1 --> skip fine calibration (only non Plustek devices)
.RE
.PP
option skipFineWhite b
.RS
.I b
0 --> perform white fine calibration,
.br
1 --> skip white fine calibration (only non Plustek devices)
.RE
.PP
option skipDarkStrip b
.RS
.I b
0 --> perform dark calibration, with enabled lamp using the
dark calibration strip of the scanner. If the scanner does
not have such a strip, the alternative way is to switch off
the lamp during this step.
.br
1 --> always switch off the lamp for dark calibration, even
a black strip is available
.RE
.PP
option skipCalibration b
.RS
.I b
0 --> perform calibration,
.br
1 --> skip calibration (only non Plustek devices)
.RE
.PP
option enableTPA b
.RS
.I b
0 --> default behaviour, specified by the internal tables,
.br
1 --> override internal tables and allow TPA mode (EPSON/UMAX only)
.RE

.PP
option posOffX x
.br
option posOffY y
.br
option tpaOffX x
.br
option tpaOffY y
.br
option negOffX x
.br
option negOffY y
.RS
.I x y
By using this settings, the user can adjust the given image
positions.
.B Please note, that there's no internal range checking for
.B this feature.
.RE
.PP
option posShadingY p
.br
option tpaShadingY p
.br
option negShadingY p
.RS
.I p
overrides the internal shading position. The values are in steps.
.B Please note, that there's no internal range checking for
.B this feature.
.RE
.PP
option redGamma r
.br
option greenGamma g
.br
option blueGamma b
.br
option grayGamma gr
.RS
.I r g b gr
.RE
By using these values, the internal linear gamma table (r,g,b,gr = 1.0)
can be adjusted.
.PP
option red_gain r
.br
option red_offset ro
.br
option green_gain g
.br
option green_offset go
.br
option blue_gain b
.br
option blue_offset bo
.RS
.I r g b ro go bo
These values can be used to set the gain and offset values of
the AFE for each channel. The range is between 0 and 63. \-1
means autocalibration.
.RE

.PP
See the plustek.conf file for examples.
.PP
.B Note:
.br
You have to make sure, that the USB subsystem is loaded
correctly and you have access to the device-node. For
more details see
.B sane\-usb (5)
manpage. You might use
.B sane\-find\-scanner
to check that you have access to your device.
.PP
.B Note:
.br
If there's no configuration file, the backend defaults to
.B device auto

.SH FILES
.TP
.I /Users/mike/Documents/wine/usr/etc/sane.d/plustek.conf
The backend configuration file
.TP
.I /Users/mike/Documents/wine/usr/lib/sane/libsane\-plustek.a
The static library implementing this backend.
.TP
.I /Users/mike/Documents/wine/usr/lib/sane/libsane\-plustek.so
The shared library implementing this backend (present on systems that
support dynamic loading).

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
This environment variable specifies the list of directories that may
contain the configuration file.  Under UNIX, the directories are
separated by a colon (`:'), under OS/2, they are separated by a
semi-colon (`;').  If this variable is not set, the configuration file
is searched in two default directories: first, the current working
directory (".") and then in /Users/mike/Documents/wine/usr/etc/sane.d.  If the value of the
environment variable ends with the directory separator character, then
the default directories are searched after the explicitly specified
directories.  For example, setting
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
to "/tmp/config:" would result in directories "tmp/config", ".", and
"/Users/mike/Documents/wine/usr/etc/sane.d" being searched (in this order).
.TP
.B SANE_DEBUG_PLUSTEK
If the library was compiled with debug support enabled, this
environment variable controls the debug level for this backend.  Higher
debug levels increase the verbosity of the output.

Example:
export SANE_DEBUG_PLUSTEK=10

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR sane (7),
.BR sane\-usb (5),
.BR sane\-u12 (5),
.BR sane\-gt68xx (5),
.br
.I /Users/mike/Documents/wine/usr/share/doc/sane-backends/plustek/Plustek-USB.changes
.br
.I http://www.gjaeger.de/scanner/plustek/

.SH "CONTACT AND BUG-REPORTS"
Please send any information and bug-reports to:
.br
.B SANE Mailing List
.PP
Additional info and hints can be obtained from our
.br
Mailing-List archive at:
.br
.B http://www.sane\-project.org/mailing\-lists.html
.PP
or directly from the projects' homepage at:
.br
.B http://www.gjaeger.de/scanner/plustek/
.PP
To obtain debug messages from the backend, please set the
environment-variable
.I SANE_DEBUG_PLUSTEK
before calling your favorite scan-frontend (i.e. xscanimage).
.br
.B i.e.: export SANE_DEBUG_PLUSTEK=20 ; xscanimage
.PP
The value controls the verbosity of the backend. Please note, that
values greater than 24 force the backend to output raw data files,
which could be rather large. The ending of these files is ".raw".
For problem reports it should be enough the set the verbosity to
13.

.SH "KNOWN BUGS & RESTRICTIONS"

.PP
* The driver does not support these manic scalings up
to 16 times the physical resolution. The only scaling
is done on resolutions between the physical resolution
of the CCD-/CIS-sensor and the stepper motor i.e. you 
have a 600x1200 dpi scanner and you are scanning using 
800dpi, so scaling is necessary, because the sensor only 
delivers 600dpi but the motor is capable to perform 
1200dpi steps.
.PP
* Plusteks' model policy is somewhat inconsistent. They 
sell technically different devices under the
same product name. Therefore it is possible that some
devices like the UT12 or U12 won't work \- please check
the model list above and compare the product-id to
the one your device has.
.PP
* Negative/Slide scanning quality is poor.
