.TH sane\-hp4200 5 "13 Jul 2008" "" "SANE Scanner Access Now Easy"
.IX sane\-hp4200
.SH NAME
sane\-hp4200 \- SANE backend for Hewlett-Packard 4200 scanners
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B sane\-hp4200
library implements a SANE (Scanner Access Now Easy) backend that provides
access to the following Hewlett-Packard USB flatbed scanners:
.PP
.RS
ScanJet 4200 C
.br
ScanJet 4200 Cxi
.br
ScanJet 4200 Cse
.RE
.PP
More details can be found on the hp4200 backend homepage 
.IR http://hp4200\-backend.sourceforge.net/ .
.PP
This is BETA software. Keep your hand at the scanner's plug and unplug it, if
the head bumps at the end of the scan area. 
.PP
If you own a scanner other than the ones listed above that works with this
backend, please let us know this by sending the scanner's exact model name and
the USB vendor and device ids (e.g. from
.IR /proc/bus/usb/devices ,
.I sane\-find\-scanner
or syslog) to us. Even if the scanner's name is only slightly different from
the models mentioned above, please let us know.
.PP

.SH CONFIGURATION
The contents of the
.I hp4200.conf
file is a list of usb lines containing vendor and product ids that correspond
to USB scanners. The file can also contain the names of device files that
correspond to an HP 4200 scanner.  Empty lines and lines starting with a hash
mark (#) are ignored.  The scanners are autodetected by
.B usb vendor_id product_id
statements which are already included into
.IR hp4200.conf .
"vendor_id" and "product_id" are hexadecimal numbers that identify the
scanner. If autodetection does not work, add the device name of your scanner
to the configuration file, e.g.
.IR /dev/usb/scanner0 .
.PP

.SH FILES
.TP
.I /Users/mike/Documents/wine/usr/etc/sane.d/hp4200.conf
The backend configuration file (see also description of
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
below).
.TP
.I /Users/mike/Documents/wine/usr/lib/sane/libsane\-hp4200.a
The static library implementing this backend.
.TP
.I /Users/mike/Documents/wine/usr/lib/sane/libsane\-hp4200.so
The shared library implementing this backend (present on systems that
support dynamic loading).
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
This environment variable specifies the list of directories that may
contain the configuration file.  Under UNIX, the directories are
separated by a colon (`:'), under OS/2, they are separated by a
semi-colon (`;').  If this variable is not set, the configuration file
is searched in two default directories: first, the current working
directory (".") and then in /Users/mike/Documents/wine/usr/etc/sane.d.  If the value of the
environment variable ends with the directory separator character, then
the default directories are searched after the explicitly specified
directories.  For example, setting
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
to "/tmp/config:" would result in directories "tmp/config", ".", and
"/Users/mike/Documents/wine/usr/etc/sane.d" being searched (in this order).
.TP
.B SANE_DEBUG_HP4200
If the library was compiled with debug support enabled, this
environment variable controls the debug level for this backend.  Higher
debug levels increase the verbosity of the output. 

Example: 
export SANE_DEBUG_HP4200=4

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR sane (7),
.BR sane\-usb (5),
.br
.I http://hp4200\-backend.sourceforge.net/

.SH AUTHOR
Adrian Perez Jorge, Andrew John Lewis, Arnar Mar Hrafnkelsson, Frank Zago,
Henning Meier-Geinitz. Current maintainer: Henning Meier-Geinitz <henning@meier\-geinitz.de>.

.SH BUGS
Tested only with Linux.
.PP
Only 8 bit color mode works.
.PP
Scanning is slow due to backtracking.
.PP
Send bug reports to the sane\-devel mailing list:
sane\-devel@lists.alioth.debian.org.
