.TH sane\-hp3900 5 "06 Jan 2009" "" "SANE Scanner Access Now Easy"
.IX sane\-hp3900
.SH NAME
sane\-hp3900 \- SANE backend for RTS8822 chipset based scanners
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B sane\-hp3900
library implements a SANE (Scanner Access Now Easy) backend that provides
access at least to the following USB flatbed scanners:
.PP
.RS
.ft CR
.nf
Model:                     Chipset:
------                     --------
HP ScanJet 3800            RTS8822BL-03A
HP ScanJet 3970            RTS8822L-01H
HP ScanJet 4070 Photosmart RTS8822L-01H
HP ScanJet 4370            RTS8822L-02A
HP ScanJet G2710           RTS8822BL-03A
HP ScanJet G3010           RTS8822L-02A
HP ScanJet G3110           RTS8822L-02A
UMAX Astra 4900/4950       RTS8822L-01H *
BenQ 5550                  RTS8823L-01E *
.fi
.ft R
.RE
.PP
More details can be found on the hp3900 backend homepage 
.IR http://sourceforge.net/projects/hp3900\-series/ .
.PP
This is ALPHA software. Keep your hand at the scanner's plug and unplug it, if
scanner does not start to scan. See also the BUGS section.
.PP
If you own a scanner other than the ones listed above that works with this
backend, please let us know this by sending the scanner's exact model name and
the USB vendor and device ids (e.g. from
.IR /proc/bus/usb/devices ,
.I sane\-find\-scanner
or syslog) to us. Even if the scanner's name is only slightly different from
the models mentioned above, please let us know.
.PP

.SH CONFIGURATION
The contents of the
.I hp3900.conf
file is a list of usb lines containing vendor and product ids that correspond
to USB scanners. The file can also contain the names of device files that
correspond to an HP 39XX scanner.  Empty lines and lines starting with a hash
mark (#) are ignored.  The scanners are autodetected by
.B usb vendor_id product_id
statements which are already included into
.IR hp3900.conf .
"vendor_id" and "product_id" are hexadecimal numbers that identify the
scanner. If autodetection does not work, add the device name of your scanner
to the configuration file,
.PP

.SH FILES
.TP
.I /Users/mike/Documents/wine/usr/etc/sane.d/hp3900.conf
The backend configuration file (see also description of
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
below).
.TP
.I /Users/mike/Documents/wine/usr/lib/sane/libsane\-hp3900.a
The static library implementing this backend.
.TP
.I /Users/mike/Documents/wine/usr/lib/sane/libsane\-hp3900.so
The shared library implementing this backend (present on systems that
support dynamic loading).
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
This environment variable specifies the list of directories that may
contain the configuration file.  Under UNIX, the directories are
separated by a colon (`:'), under OS/2, they are separated by a
semi-colon (`;').  If this variable is not set, the configuration file
is searched in two default directories: first, the current working
directory (".") and then in /Users/mike/Documents/wine/usr/etc/sane.d.  If the value of the
environment variable ends with the directory separator character, then
the default directories are searched after the explicitly specified
directories.  For example, setting
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
to "/tmp/config:" would result in directories "tmp/config", ".", and
"/etc/sane.d" being searched (in this order).
.TP
.B SANE_DEBUG_HP3900
If the library was compiled with debug support enabled, this
environment variable controls the debug level for this backend.  Higher
debug levels increase the verbosity of the output. 

Example: 
export SANE_DEBUG_HP3900=4

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR sane (7),
.BR sane\-usb (5),
.br
.I http://sourceforge.net/projects/hp3900\-series/
.I http://jkdsoftware.dyndns.org/drupal/?q=es/books/151

.SH AUTHOR
Jonathan Bravo Lopez <jkdsoft@gmail.com>

.SH BUGS
Scanning is only tested with Linux/ix86/gcc. Be careful when testing on other
operating systems and especially on big-endian platforms. The scanner may get
wrong data.

