.TH sane\-microtek2 5 "13 Jul 2008" "" "SANE Scanner Access Now Easy"
.SH NAME
sane\-microtek2 \- SANE backend for Microtek scanners with SCSI-2 command set
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B sane\-microtek2
library implements a SANE (Scanner Access Now Easy) backend that
provides access to Microtek scanners with a SCSI-2 command set.
This backend can be considered alpha to beta. Some scanner models are reported
to work well, others not. New development versions of this backend can be
obtained from
.B http://karstenfestag.gmxhome.de
.PP
There exists a different backend for Microtek scanners with SCSI-1 command
set.
Refer to sane\-microtek(5) for details.
.PP
And there is work in progress for the ScanMaker 3600.
See
.B http://sourceforge.net/projects/sm3600
.PP
At present, the following scanners are known positively to work with this
backend:
.PP
.ft CR
.nf
Vendor     Product id        Remark
--------------------------------------------------------------------
Microtek   E3+               Parport and SCSI
Microtek   X6                SCSI
Microtek   X6EL              SCSI
Microtek   X6USB             USB
Microtek   ScanMaker V300    Parport and SCSI
Microtek   ScanMaker V310    Parport and SCSI
Microtek   ScanMaker V600    Parport and SCSI
Microtek   ScanMaker 330     SCSI
Microtek   ScanMaker 630     SCSI
Microtek   ScanMaker 636     SCSI
Microtek   ScanMaker 9600XL  SCSI; only flatbed mode?
Microtek   Phantom 330CX     Parport
Microtek   SlimScan C3       Parport
Microtek   SlimScan C6       USB
Microtek   Phantom 636       SCSI
Microtek   Phantom 636CX     Parport
Microtek   V6USL             SCSI and USB
Microtek   V6UPL             USB; not stable
Microtek   X12USL            SCSI; only 8bit color, work in progress
Vobis      HighScan          SCSI (E3+ based models)
Scanport   SQ300             Parport?
Scanport   SQ4836            SCSI
Scanpaq    SQ2030            Parport
.fi
.ft R
.PP
Additional information can be found at
.BR http://www.sane\-project.org/ .
.PP
If you own a Microtek scanner other than the ones listed above,
it may or may not work with SANE! Because equal scanners are sold under
different names in different countries your model may be equivalent to one of
the above.
.PP
The parport scanners work with the ppscsi + onscsi kernel modules. See
.I http://cyberelk.net/tim/parport/ppscsi.html
and
.IR http://penguin-breeder.org/kernel/download/ .

.PP
The USB scanners work with the microtek kernel module. You may have to add the
vendor and model codes to microtek.c if they aren't yet listed there.
.PP
Both parport and USB scanners need the generic SCSI support, so check if you
have loaded the scsi_mod and sg modules!
.PP
If you try your scanner for the first time keep an eye on it. If it gets
commands that it doesn't understand the scanhead may go beyond the scan area.
The scanner then makes strange noises. In this case immediately switch off
the scanner or disconnect its power cable to prevent damages!
.PP
If your scanner is a different one than the models mentioned above and it is
working please tell the author about it. It would be nice if you add a logfile
to this information (creation of the logfile: see below).
.PP
If your scanner is not working properly you also should create a logfile and
send it to the author. He will use the information to improve the backend and
possibly make your scanner work.
.PP
.br
How to create the logfile?
.TP
\- put the line
.br
"option dump 2" into your
.I microtek2.conf
file or change the existing "option dump" to "2"
.TP
\- in a terminal (bash) type
.br
"export SANE_DEBUG_MICROTEK2=30" and then
.br
"scanimage \-l0 \-t0 \-x100 \-y20 2>scan.log >sout.pnm"
.br
You get two files: scan.log contains the logfile and sout.pnm the scanned
image (if there was scanned something). Zip them before sending.

.SH "FRONTEND OPTIONS"
This backend dynamically enables the options for the frontend, that are
supported by the scanner in dependence of the scanning-mode and other
options.
Not supported options are disabled.
.PP
The following options are supported by the Microtek2-driver:
.PP
Color, grayscale, halftone and lineart scans.
.PP
Highlight, midtone, shadow, contrast, brightness, exposure time control,
gamma correction, threshold (dependent of the scan mode and the scanner
capabilities)
.PP
Transparency media adapter, automatic document feeder
.PP
Additional options can be enabled or disabled in the
.I microtek2.conf
file. See the configuration section of this manpage.

.SH "DEVICE NAMES"
This backend expects device names of the form:
.PP
.RS
.I  special
.RE
.PP
Where
.I special
is the UNIX path-name for the special device that corresponds to the
scanner.  The special device name must be a generic SCSI device or a
symlink to such a device.  Under Linux, such a device name could be
.I  /dev/sga
or
.I  /dev/sge
for example.
.SH "CONFIGURATION"
The configuration file for this backend resides in
.IR /Users/mike/Documents/wine/usr/etc/sane.d/microtek2.conf .

Its contents is a list of device names that correspond to Microtek
scanners with SCSI-2 interface. Empty lines and lines starting with
a hash mark (#) are ignored.
.PP
The configuration file may also contain options. Global options that are valid
for all devices are placed above the device names. Device-specific options
are
placed under the device name. Note that, except for option dump <n> and
option strip-height <n>, the entry in the microtek2.conf file only enables
the corresponding option for being showed in the frontend. There, in the
frontend, you can switch the options on and off.
Currently the following options are supported:
.PP
.RS
option dump <n>
.br
option strip\-height <n>
.br
option no\-backtrack\-option <on/off>
.br
option lightlid\-35 <on/off>
.br
option toggle\-lamp <on/off>
.br
option lineart\-autoadjust <on/off>
.br
option backend\-calibration <on/off>
.br
option colorbalance\-adjust <on/off>
.RE
.PP
.I option dump <n>
enables printing of additional information about the SCSI commands that are
sent to the scanner to stderr. This option is primarily useful for debugging
purpose. This option has to be a global option and is best placed at the top
of the
.I microtek2.conf
file.
.PP
If n=1 the contents of the command blocks
and the results for the INQUIRY and READ SCANNER ATTRIBUTES command are
printed to stderr.
.PP
If n=2 the contents of the command blocks for all other SCSI commands are
printed to stderr, too. If n=3 the contents of the gamma table is
printed, too. If n=4 all scan data is additionally printed to stderr.
.PP
The default is n=1.
.PP
.I option strip\-height <n>
, where <n> is a floating point number, limits the amount of data that is
read from the scanner with one read command.
The unit is inch and <n> defaults to 1.0, if this option is not set in the
configuration file. If less than <n> inch of data fit into the SCSI buffer,
then the smaller value is used and this option has no effect.
.PP
If your system has a big SCSI buffer and you want to make use of the whole
buffer, increase the value for <n>. For example, if <n> is set to 14.0,
no restrictions apply for scanners with a letter, legal or A4 sized scan area.
.PP
.PP
The following options enable or disable additional frontend options. If an
option is set to <on> an appropriate option will appear in the frontend.
.PP
.I option no\-backtrack\-option <on/off>
prevents the scanner head from moving backwards between the read commands.
This speeds up scanning. Try it.
.PP
.I option lightlid\-35 <on/off>
If you use the LightLid-35 transparency adapter you get an advanced
option which switches off the flatbed lamp during the scan.
.PP
.I option toggle\-lamp <on/off>
You get a button in the frontend where you can switch on and off the flatbed
lamp.
.PP
.I option lineart\-autoadjust <on/off>
You can tell the backend to try to determine a good value for the lineart
threshold.
.PP
.I option backend\-calibration <on/off>
Some scanners (e.g. Phantom 330CX and 636CX) need to have calibrated the data
by the backend. Try this option if you see vertical stripes in your pictures.
.PP
.I option colorbalance\-adjust <on/off>
Some scanners (e.g. Phantom 330CX and 636CX) need to have corrected
the color balance. If this option is enabled you get advanced options
where you can balance the colors. And you will have a button
to use the values that the firmware of the scanner provides.
.PP
A sample configuration file is shown below:
.PP
.RS
option dump 1
.br
option strip\-height 1.0
.br
/dev/scanner
.br
option no\-backtrack\-option on
.br
# this is a comment
.br
/dev/sge
.br
option lightlid\-35 on
.RE

This backend also supports the new configuration file format which makes
it easier to detect scanners under Linux. If you have only one scanner it
would be best to use the following configuration file for this backend:
.PP
.RS
option dump 1
.br
option strip\-height 14.0
.br
option no\-backtrack\-option on
.br
option backend\-calibration on
.br
option lightlid\-35 on
.br
option toggle\-lamp on
.br
option lineart\-autoadjust on
.br
option colorbalance\-adjust off
.br
scsi * * Scanner
.RE

In this case all SCSI-Scanners should be detected automatically because of the
.PP
scsi * * Scanner
.PP
line.

.SH "FILES"
.TP
.I /Users/mike/Documents/wine/usr/etc/sane.d/microtek2.conf
The backend configuration file.
.TP
.I /Users/mike/Documents/wine/usr/lib/sane/libsane\-microtek2.a
The static library implementing this backend.
.TP
.I /Users/mike/Documents/wine/usr/lib/sane/libsane\-microtek2.so
The shared library implementing this backend (present on systems that
support dynamic loading).
.SH "ENVIRONMENT"
.TP
.B SANE_DEBUG_MICROTEK2
If the library was compiled with debug support enabled, this
environment variable controls the debug level for this backend.  E.g.,
a value of 255 requests all debug output to be printed.  Smaller
levels reduce verbosity. To see error messages on stderr set
SANE_DEBUG_MICROTEK2 to 1 (Remark: The whole debugging levels should
be better revised).
.br
E.g. just say:
.br
export SANE_DEBUG_MICROTEK2=128
.SH "SEE ALSO"
sane\-scsi(5), sane(7)
.SH "AUTHORS"
Bernd Schroeder (not active anymore)
.br
Karsten Festag  karsten.festag@gmx.de





