.TH sane\-artec_eplus48u 5 "11 Jul 2008" "" "SANE"
.SH NAME
sane\-artec_eplus48u \- SANE backend for the scanner Artec E+ 48U and re-badged models
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B sane\-artec_eplus48u
library implements a SANE (Scanner Access Now Easy) backend that provides
access to several USB flatbed scanners using the GT6816 chipset like the Artec E+ 48U.
These scanners have a contact image sensor (CIS) and an USB interface.
.PP
A complete list of supported devices can be found on
.IR http://www.sane\-project.org/sane\-supported\-devices.html .
.PP
This is ALPHA software. Especially if you test new or untested scanners, keep
your hand at the scanner's plug and unplug it, if the head bumps at the end of
the scan area.
.PP
If you own a scanner other than the ones mentioned on the list that works with this
backend, please let us know this by sending the scanner's exact model name and
the USB vendor and product ids (e.g. from /proc/bus/usb/devices,
sane\-find\-scanner or syslog) to me. Even if the scanner's name is only
slightly different from the models mentioned above, please let me know.
.PP
.SH KERNEL ISSUES
If libusb-0.1.6 or later is installed, this section can be skipped. The
scanner should be found by sane\-find\-scanner without further actions. For
setting permissions and general USB information look at sane\-usb(5).
.PP
When you are using the scanner module, a Linux kernel 2.4.12 or newer is
required.

.SH FIRMWARE FILE
You need a firmware file for your scanner. That's a small file containing
software that will be uploaded to the scanner's memory. For the scanners
mentioned above, it's usually named Artec48.usb or 1200.usb. You can find it on
the installation CD that was provided by the manufacturer, normally in the
directory Win98, WinMe or similar. If the Windows-driver is installed on your
computer, then you can also find the firmware file under
c:\\windows\\system32\\drivers.
.SH CONFIGURATION
The contents of the
.I artec_eplus48u.conf
file is a list of usb lines containing vendor and product ids that correspond
to USB scanners. The file can also contain option lines.  Empty lines and
lines starting with a hash mark (#) are ignored.  The scanners are
autodetected by
.I usb vendor_id product_id
statements which are already included into
.I artec_eplus48u.conf .
"vendor_id" and "product_id" are hexadecimal numbers that identify the
.B scanner.
.PP
Every usb section can have additional options
.TP
.B artecFirmwareFile /Users/mike/Documents/wine/usr/share/sane/artec_eplus48u/Artec48.usb
The path to the firmware file. This option is required.
.TP
.B redGamma         1.0
.TP
.B greenGamma       1.0
.TP
.B blueGamma        1.0
.TP
.B masterGamma      1.9
These are the default gamma values. If you set the "Defaults" option with a frontend,
then the gamma options are reset to the values specified here.
.TP
.B redOffset        0x28
.TP
.B greenOffset      0x2f
.TP
.B blueOffset       0x2f
.TP
.B redExposure      0xa7
.TP
.B greenExposure    0x116
.TP
.B blueExposure     0xdc
These are the default values for offset and exposure time. You can e.g. change them to speed up calibration,
if you don't want to save the calibration data to disk.
.TP
.B vendorString "Artec"
.TP
.B modelString "E+ 48U"
By default, the scanner is reported as "Artec E+ 48U". If you don't like this, e.g.
because you have an Tevion MD 9693, then change the options accordingly.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /usr/local/etc/sane.d/artec_eplus48u.conf
The backend configuration file (see also description of
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
below).
.TP
.I /usr/local/lib/sane/libsane\-artec_eplus48u.a
The static library implementing this backend.
.TP
.I /usr/local/lib/sane/libsane\-artec_eplus48u.so
The shared library implementing this backend (present on systems that
support dynamic loading).
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
This environment variable specifies the list of directories that may
contain the configuration file.  Under UNIX, the directories are
separated by a colon (`:'), under OS/2, they are separated by a
semi-colon (`;').  If this variable is not set, the configuration file
is searched in two default directories: first, the current working
directory (".") and then in /usr/local/etc/sane.d.  If the value of the
environment variable ends with the directory separator character, then
the default directories are searched after the explicitly specified
directories.  For example, setting
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
to "/tmp/config:" would result in directories "tmp/config", ".", and
"/usr/local/etc/sane.d" being searched (in this order).
.TP
.B SANE_DEBUG_ARTEC_EPLUS48U
If the library was compiled with debug support enabled, this
environment variable controls the debug level for this backend.  Higher
debug levels increase the verbosity of the output.

Example:
export SANE_DEBUG_ARTEC_EPLUS48U=3

.SH "SEE ALSO"
sane(7), sane\-usb(5)

.SH AUTHOR
Michael Herder
.br
This backend is based on the gt68xx test-program written by Sergey Vlasov, Andreas Nowack, and
David Stevenson. Thanks to everyone who tested the backend or reported bugs.
.br
This man page is based on man sane\-gt68xx, written by Henning Meier-Geinitz.
.SH BUGS
This backend has been tested on Linux only. If you are using it on a different platform, please
contact us.
.PP
Interpolation with 1200 dpi is weak.
.PP
Support for buttons is missing due to missing support in SANE.
.PP
Please contact us if you find a bug: 
.IR http://www.sane\-project.org/bugs.html .

