.TH sane\-net 5 "14 Jul 2008" "" "SANE Scanner Access Now Easy"
.IX sane\-net
.SH NAME
sane\-net \- SANE network backend
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B sane\-net
library implements a SANE (Scanner Access Now Easy) backend that
provides access to image acquisition devices through a network
connection.  This makes it possible to control devices attached to a
remote host and also provides a means to grant users access to
protected resources.

.SH "DEVICE NAMES"
This backend expects device names of the form:
.PP
.RS
.IR host : device
.RE
.PP
Where
.I host
is the name (or IP address) of the (remote) host and
.I device
is the name of the device on this host that should be addressed.
If the device name does not contain a colon (:), then the entire string
is treated as the
.I device
string for the default host.  The default host is the host listed last
in the configuration file (see below).
.PP
An IPv6 address can be specified enclosed in square brackets:
.PP
.RS
.IR [::1] : device
.RE
.SH CONFIGURATION
The
.IR net.conf
file contains both backend options and a list of host names (or IP
addresses) that should be contacted for scan requests. Anything that
isn't one of the options listed below will be treated as an host name.
.PP
.TP
.B connect_timeout = nsecs
Timeout (in seconds) for the initial connection to the
.I saned
server. This will prevent the backend from blocking for several
minutes trying to connect to an unresponsive
.I saned
host (network outage, host down, ...). The environment variable
.B SANE_NET_TIMEOUT
can also be used to specify the timeout at runtime.
.PP
Empty lines and lines starting with a hash mark (#) are
ignored.  Note that IPv6 addresses in this file do not need to be enclosed
in square brackets.  A sample configuration file is shown below:
.PP
.RS
scan\-server.somedomain.firm
.br
192.168.0.1
.br
# this is a comment
.br
localhost
.br
::1
.RE
.PP
The above list of hosts can be extended at run-time using environment
variable
.BR SANE_NET_HOSTS .
This environment variable is a colon-separated list of hostnames or IP
addresses that should be contacted in addition to the hosts mentioned in
the configuration file.  For example, a user could set the environment
variable to the string:
.PP
.RS
new.scanner.com:[::1]:192.168.0.2:scanner.univ.edu
.RE
.PP
To request that hosts
.I new.scanner.com
,
.I [::1]
,
.I 192.168.0.2
and
.I scanner.univ.edu
are contacted in addition to the hosts listed above.
.PP
For this backend to function properly, it is also necessary to define the
.B sane\-port
service in
.IR /etc/services .
The
.B sane
service should be defined using a line of the following form:
.PP
.RS
sane\-port 6566/tcp # SANE network scanner daemon
.RE
.PP
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /Users/mike/Documents/wine/usr/etc/sane.d/net.conf
The backend configuration file (see also description of
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
below).
.TP
.I /Users/mike/Documents/wine/usr/lib/sane/libsane\-net.a
The static library implementing this backend.
.TP
.I /Users/mike/Documents/wine/usr/lib/sane/libsane\-net.so
The shared library implementing this backend (present on systems that
support dynamic loading).
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
This environment variable specifies the list of directories that may
contain the configuration file.  Under UNIX, the directories are
separated by a colon (`:'), under OS/2, they are separated by a
semi-colon (`;').  If this variable is not set, the configuration file
is searched in two default directories: first, the current working
directory (".") and then in /Users/mike/Documents/wine/usr/etc/sane.d.  If the value of the
environment variable ends with the directory separator character, then
the default directories are searched after the explicitly specified
directories.  For example, setting
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
to "/tmp/config:" would result in directories "tmp/config", ".", and
"/Users/mike/Documents/wine/usr/etc/sane.d" being searched (in this order).
.TP
.B SANE_NET_HOSTS
A colon-separated list of host names or IP addresses to be contacted by this
backend.
.TP
.B SANE_NET_TIMEOUT
Number of seconds to wait for a response from the
.I saned
server for the initial connection request.
.TP
.B SANE_DEBUG_NET
If the library was compiled with debug support enabled, this
environment variable controls the debug level for this backend.  E.g.,
a value of 128 requests all debug output to be printed.  Smaller
levels reduce verbosity.
.SH BUGS
If saned has timed out, the net backend may loop with authorization requests.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
sane(7), saned(8), sane\-dll(5), scanimage(1)

.I http://www.penguin-breeder.org/?page=sane\-net
.SH AUTHOR
David Mosberger and Andreas Beck
