.\" .IX sane-magicolor
.TH "sane-magicolor" "5" "10 Jan 2011" "" "SANE Scanner Access Now Easy"
.SH "NAME"
sane\-magicolor \- SANE backend for KONICA MINOLTA magicolor scanners
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The
.B sane\-magicolor
backend supports KONICA MINOLTA magicolor scanners connected via USB or LAN. Currently, only the magicolor 1690MF device is supported, no other devices with the same scanning protocol are known.
.SH "SUPPORTED DEVICES"
The following scanner should work with this backend:

Device Details
.br 
\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-
.br 
Vendor: KONICA MINOLTA
.br 
Model: magicolor 1690MF

.SH "CONFIGURATION"
.PP 
This section describes the backend's configuration file entries. The file is located at:
.IP 
.I /Users/mike/Documents/wine/usr/etc/sane.d/magicolor.conf
.PP 
For a proper setup, at least one of the following entries are needed:
.IP 
.I net autodiscovery
.br
.I net [IP ADDRESS] [DEVICE-ID]
.br
.I usb
.br
.I usb [VENDOR-ID] [DEVICE-ID]

.SH "FILES"
.TP 
.I /Users/mike/Documents/wine/usr/etc/sane.d/magicolor.conf
The backend configuration file
.TP 
.I /Users/mike/Documents/wine/usr/lib/sane/libsane\-magicolor.a
The static library implementing this backend.
.TP 
.I /Users/mike/Documents/wine/usr/lib/sane/libsane\-magicolor.so
The shared library implementing this backend (present on systems that support dynamic loading).
.SH "ENVIRONMENT"
.TP 
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
This environment variable specifies the list of directories that may contain the configuration file.  Under UNIX, the directories are separated by a colon (`:'), under OS/2, they are separated by a semi\-colon (`;').  If this variable is not set, the configuration file is searched in two default directories: first, the current working directory (".") and then in /Users/mike/Documents/wine/usr/etc/sane.d.  If the value of the environment variable ends with the directory separator character, then the default directories are searched after the explicitly specified directories.  For example, setting
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
to "/tmp/config:" would result in directories "/tmp/config", ".", and "/Users/mike/Documents/wine/usr/etc/sane.d" being searched (in this order).
.TP 
.B SANE_DEBUG_MAGICOLOR
If the library was compiled with debug support enabled, this environment variable controls the debug level for this backend.  Higher debug levels increase the verbosity of the output.

Example: export SANE_DEBUG_MAGICOLOR=127

To obtain debug messages from the backend, set this environment variable before calling your favorite frontend (e.g. xscanimage).

Example: SANE_DEBUG_MAGICOLOR=65 xscanimage
.SH "KNOWN BUGS AND RESTRICTIONS"
.PP 
Large color scans may sometimes timeout due to unknown reasons (the scanner simply stops returning data)
.PP 
Cancelling large scans may lock up the scanner.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR sane (7),
.br 
.I http://wiki.kainhofer.com/hardware/magicolor_scan
.SH "AUTHOR"
.PP 
Reinhold Kainhofer <reinhold@kainhofer.com>
