.TH sane\-umax 5 "14 Jul 2008" "" "SANE Scanner Access Now Easy"
.IX sane\-umax

.SH NAME
sane\-umax \- SANE backend for UMAX scanners

.SH ABOUT THIS FILE

This file only is a short description of the umax-backend for sane! For detailed information take a look at
sane\-umax\-doc.html (it is included in the sane source directory and in the xsane online help)!

.SH DESCRIPTION

The
.B sane\-umax
library implements a SANE backend that provides access to several UMAX-SCSI-scanners and some Linotye Hell SCSI-scanners,
parallel- and USB-scanners are not (and probably will never be) supported!

.B I suggest you hold one hand on the power-button of the scanner while you try the first scans!

.SH CONFIGURATION

The configuration file for this backend resides in 
.IR /Users/mike/Documents/wine/usr/etc/sane.d/umax.conf .

Its contents is a list of device names that correspond to UMAX and UMAX compatible scanners. Empty lines
and lines starting with a hash mark (#) are ignored. A sample configuration file is
shown below: 

.nf
 # this is a comment
 #
 option scsi\-maxqueue 4
 option scsi\-buffer\-size\-min 65536
 option scsi\-buffer\-size\-max 131072
 option scan\-lines 40
 option preview\-lines 10
 option scsi\-maxqueue 2
 option execute\-request\-sense 0
 option force\-preview\-bit\-rgb 0
 option slow\-speed \-1
 option care\-about\-smearing \-1
 option calibration\-full\-ccd \-1
 option calibration\-width\-offset \-1
 option calibration\-bytes\-pixel \-1
 option exposure\-time\-rgb\-bind \-1
 option invert\-shading\-data \-1 
 option lamp\-control\-available 0
 option gamma\-lsb\-padded 0
 /dev/sge 
\ 
 #scsi Vendor Model Type Bus Channel ID LUN 
 # The following scanner supports lamp control
 option lamp\-control\-available 1
 scsi UMAX * Scanner * * * * * 
\ 
 # scanner on /dev/scanner does not support lamp control
 option lamp\-control\-available 0
 /dev/scanner 
.fi

.TP
execute\-request\-sense:
values: 0 = disabled, 1 = enabled
.br
default = 0
.br
If set to 1 umax_do_request_sense is called in
umax_do_calibration. This can hang the system
(but has been enabled until this version)
.TP
scsi\-buffer\-size\-min, scsi\-buffer\-size\-max:
values: 4096-1048576
.br
default min = 32768, max = 131072
.br
Especially the minimum value is very important.
If this value is set too small the backend is not
able to send gamma tables to the scanner or to
do a correct color calibration. This may result in
strange color effects. If the minimum value is set
too large then the backend is not able to allocate
the requested scsi buffer size and aborts with
out of memory error. The default is 32KB, for
some scanners it should be increased to 64KB.
.TP
scan\-lines, preview\-lines:
values: 1-65535
.br
default: scan\-lines = 40, preview\-lines = 10
.br
define the maximum number of lines that are scanned
into one buffer
.TP
force\-preview\-bit\-rgb:
values:
0 = disabled,
1 = enabled
.br
default = 0
.br
set preview bit in rgb real scan
.TP
slow\-speed, care\-about\-smearing:
values:
\-1 = auto,
0 = disabled,
1 = enabled
.br
default = \-1
.br
dangerous options, needed for some scanners
do not changed these options until you really know
what you do, you may destroy your scanner when you
define wrong values for this options
.TP
calibration\-full\-ccd:
values:
\-1 = auto,
0 = disabled,
1 = enabled
.br
default = \-1
.br
do calibration for each pixel of ccd instead of
selected image
.TP
calibration\-width\-offset:
values: \-99999 = auto, > \-99999 set value
.br
add an offset width to the calculated with for
image/ccd
.TP
calibration\-bytes\-pixel:
values:
\-1 = disabled,
0 = not set,
1 = 1 byte/pixel,
2 = 2 bytes/pixel
.br
use # bytes per pixel for calibration
.TP
exposure\-time\-rgb\-bind:
values:
\-1 = automatically set by driver \- if known,
0 = disabled (own selection for red, green and blue),
1 = enabled (same values for red, green and blue)
.TP
invert\-shading\-data:
values:
\-1 = automatically set by driver \- if known,
0 = disabled,
1 = enabled
.br
default = \-1
.br
invert shading data before sending it back to the scanner
.TP
lamp\-control\-available:
values:
0 = automatically set by driver \- if known,
1 = available
.br
default = 0
.TP
gamma\-lsb\-padded:
values:
\-1 = automatically set by driver \- if known,
0 = gamma data is msb padded,
1 = gamma data is lsb padded
.br
default = \-1
.TP
handle\-bad\-sense\-error:
values:
0 = handle as device busy,
1 = handle as ok,
2 = handle as i/o error,
3 = ignore bad error code \- continue sense handler
.br
default = 0
.TP
scsi\-maxqueue:
values:
1..# (maximum defined at compile time)
.br
default = 2
.br
most scsi drivers allow internal command queueing with a depth
of 2 commands. In most cases it does not mprove anything when you
increase this value. When your scsi driver does not support any
command queueing you can try to set this value to 1.

.PP
The special device name must be a generic SCSI device or a symlink to such a device.
To find out to which device your scanner is assigned and how you have to set the
permissions of that device, have a look at sane\-scsi. 

.SH SCSI ADAPTER TIPS

The ISA-SCSI-adapters that are shipped with some Umax-scanners are not supported very
well by Linux (I suggest not to use it), the PCI-SCSI-adapters that come with some
Umax-scanners are not supported at all (as far as I know). On other platforms these
SCSI-adapters are not supported. So you typically need to purchase another SCSI-adapter
that is supported by your platform. See the relevant hardware FAQs and HOWTOs for your
platform for more information. 

The UMAX-scanners do block the scsi-bus for a few seconds while scanning. It is not
necessary to connect the scanner to its own SCSI-adapter. But if you need short
response time for your SCSI-harddisk (e.g. if your computer is a file-server) or
other scsi devices, I suggest you use an own SCSI-adapter for your UMAX-scanner.

If you have any problems with your Umax scanner, check your scsi chain
(cable length, termination, ...).

See also: sane\-scsi(5)

.SH FILES

.TP
The backend configuration file:
.I /Users/mike/Documents/wine/usr/etc/sane.d/umax.conf
.TP
The static library implementing this backend:
.I /Users/mike/Documents/wine/usr/lib/sane/libsane\-umax.a
.TP
The shared library implementing this backend:
.I /Users/mike/Documents/wine/usr/lib/sane/libsane\-umax.so
(present on systems that support dynamic loading)

.SH ENVIRONMENT

.TP
.B SANE_DEBUG_UMAX
If the library was compiled with debug support enabled, this environment
variable controls the debug level for this backend. E.g., a value of 128
requests all debug output to be printed. Smaller levels reduce verbosity:
SANE_DEBUG_UMAX values

.ft CR
.nf
Number  Remark
\ 
 0       print important errors (printed each time)
 1       print errors
 2       print sense
 3       print warnings
 4       print scanner-inquiry
 5       print information
 6       print less important information
 7       print called procedures
 8       print reader_process messages
 10      print called sane\-init-routines
 11      print called sane\-procedures
 12      print sane infos
 13      print sane option-control messages
.fi
.ft R

.TP
Example:
export SANE_DEBUG_UMAX=8

.SH BUGS

X-resolutions greater than 600 dpi sometimes make problems

.SH SEE ALSO
sane(7)

.SH AUTHOR

Oliver Rauch

.SH EMAIL-CONTACT
Oliver.Rauch@Rauch-Domain.DE
