.TH sane\-hp5590 5 "13 Jul 2008" "" "SANE Scanner Access Now Easy"
.IX sane\-hp5590
.SH NAME
sane\-hp5590 \- SANE backend for
Hewlett-Packard 4500C/4570C/5500C/5550C/5590/7650 Workgroup/Document scanners
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B sane\-hp5590
library implements a SANE (Scanner Access Now Easy) backend that provides
access to the following Hewlett-Packard Workgroup/Document scanners:
.PP
.RS
ScanJet 4500C
.br
ScanJet 4570C
.br
ScanJet 5500C
.br
ScanJet 5550C
.br
ScanJet 5590
.br
ScanJet 7650
.RE
.PP
If you own a scanner other than the ones listed above that works with this
backend, please let us know this by sending the scanner's exact model name and
the USB vendor and device ids (e.g. from
.IR /proc/bus/usb/devices ,
.I sane\-find\-scanner
or syslog) to us. Even if the scanner's name is only slightly different from
the models mentioned above, please let us know.
.SH CONFIGURATION
None required.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /Users/mike/Documents/wine/usr/lib/sane/libsane\-hp5590.a
The static library implementing this backend.
.TP
.I /Users/mike/Documents/wine/usr/lib/sane/libsane\-hp5590.so
The shared library implementing this backend (present on systems that
support dynamic loading).
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B SANE_DEBUG_HP5590
If the library was compiled with debug support enabled, this
environment variable controls the debug level for this backend.  Higher
debug levels increase the verbosity of the output. See used levels below.
.P
.RS
Level 10 - generic processing
.br
Level 20 - verbose backend messages
.br
Level 40 - HP5590 high-level commands
.br
Level 50 - HP5590 low-level (USB-in-USB) commands

.P
Example: 

export SANE_DEBUG_HP5590=50

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR sane (7),
.BR sane\-usb (5),

.SH AUTHOR
Ilia Sotnikov <hostcc@gmail.com>
