.TH sane\-mustek_usb2 5 "13 Jul 2008" "" "SANE Scanner Access Now Easy"
.IX sane\-mustek_usb2
.SH NAME
sane\-mustek_usb2 \- SANE backend for SQ113 based USB flatbed scanners
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B sane\-mustek_usb2
library implements a SANE (Scanner Access Now Easy) backend that provides
access to USB flatbed scanners based on the Service & Quality SQ113 chipset. At
the moment, only the Mustek BearPaw 2448 TA Pro is supported. It's planned to add
support for other scanners that are based on the SQ113 and maybe SQ11 chip. For
more details, see the mustek_usb2 backend homepage: 
.IR http://www.meier\-geinitz.de/sane/mustek_usb2\-backend/ .
.PP
This is BETA software. Especially if you test new or untested scanners, keep
your hand at the scanner's plug and unplug it, if the head bumps at the end of
the scan area.
.PP
If you own a scanner other than the ones listed on the mustek_usb2 homepage that works with this
backend, please let me know this by sending the scanner's exact model name and
the USB vendor and device ids (e.g. from
.I sane\-find\-scanner
or syslog) to me. Even if the scanner's name is only slightly different from
the models already listed as supported, please let me know.
.PP
.SH LIBUSB ISSUES
Please use libusb-0.1.8 or later. Without libusb or with older libusb versions
all kinds of trouble can be expected. The scanner should be found by
sane\-find\-scanner without further actions. For setting permissions and general
USB information looks at
.BR sane\-usb (5).
.PP

.SH FILES
.TP
.I /Users/mike/Documents/wine/usr/lib/sane/libsane\-mustek_usb2.a
The static library implementing this backend.
.TP
.I /Users/mike/Documents/wine/usr/lib/sane/libsane\-mustek_usb2.so
The shared library implementing this backend (present on systems that
support dynamic loading).
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B SANE_DEBUG_MUSTEK_USB2
If the library was compiled with debug support enabled, this environment
variable controls the debug level for this backend.  Higher debug levels
increase the verbosity of the output. 

Example: 
export SANE_DEBUG_MUSTEK_USB2=4

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR sane (7),
.BR sane\-usb (5),
.BR sane\-plustek (5),
.BR sane\-ma1509 (5),
.BR sane\-mustek_usb (5),
.BR sane\-mustek (5),
.BR sane\-mustek_pp (5)
.br
.I /Users/mike/Documents/wine/usr/share/doc/sane-backends/mustek_usb2/mustek_usb2.CHANGES
.br
.I http://www.meier\-geinitz.de/sane/mustek_usb2\-backend/

.SH AUTHOR
The driver has been written Roy Zhou, Jack Xu, and Vinci Cen from
Mustek. Adjustments to SANE by Henning Meier-Geinitz.

.SH BUGS
Please contact me if you find a bug or missing feature:
<henning@meier\-geinitz.de>. Please send a debug log if your scanner isn't
detected correctly (see SANE_DEBUG_MUSTEK_USB2 above).
