.TH sane\-pieusb 5 "10 Aug 2015" "" "SANE Scanner Access Now Easy"
.IX sane\-pieusb
.SH NAME
sane\-pieusb \- SANE backend for USB-connected PIE PowerSlide and
Reflecta DigitDia/CrystalScan/ProScan slide scanners

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B sane\-pieusb
library implements a SANE (Scanner Access Now Easy) backend that
provides access to USB-connected PIE and Reflecta slide scanners.
.br
At present, the following scanners should work with this backend:
.PP
.ft CR
.nf
Model:                    Status
------------------------- ------
PIE PowerSlide 3600       Untested
PIE PowerSlide 3650       Untested
PIE PowerSlide 4000       Untested
PIE PowerSlide 5000       Untested
Reflecta CrystalScan 7200 Untested
Reflecta ProScan 4000     Untested
Reflecta ProScan 7200     Untested
Reflecta DigitDia 3600    Untested
Reflecta DigitDia 4000    Untested
Reflecta DigitDia 5000    Untested
Reflecta DigitDia 6000    Ok
.fi
.ft R
.PP

.SH "MULTIPLE SLIDES"
Support for multiple slide scanners (like the PowerSlide or DigitDia
series) is done by auto-advancing ('Advance slide' setting) the slide
after each scan.

However, for best results, it is recommended to do a preview for
every slide since this sets gamma, brightness, and contrast to optimal
values.

Attention: SANE does not have an automatic landscape/portrait
detection and re-orientation when scanning multiple slides. You have
to put all slides into one orientation first !

.SH "DIRT REMOVAL"
If available, pieusb supports infrared scans for dirt detection and
removal. This must be enabled via the 'Clean image' setting.

.SH "KNOWN PROBLEMS"
The pieusb backend supports dirt removal based on infrared scan
information. Since SANE does not provide post-processing in the
backend, pieusb does the scanning and dirt removal during the setup
phase. The 'scan' phase is only used to transfer the completed image.
Therefore pieusb does not multi-thread making a typical frontend
appear as 'blocked'. Also cancel requests are only honored between
scans.

.SH "ENVIRONMENT"
.TP
.B SANE_DEBUG_PIEUSB
If the library was compiled with debug support enabled, this
environment variable controls the debug level for this backend.  E.g.,
a value of 128 requests all debug output to be printed.  Smaller
levels reduce verbosity.

.PP
.RS
.ft CR
.nf
level   debug output
\-\-\-\-\-\-\- \-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-
 0       nothing
 1       errors
 2       warnings & minor errors
 5       additional information
 7       SANE api calls
 9       backend functions
11       scanner functions
13       usb functions
15       image buffer functions
.fi
.ft R
.RE
.PP

.SH FILES
.TP
.I /Users/mike/Documents/wine/usr/etc/sane.d/pieusb.conf
The backend configuration file
.TP
.I /Users/mike/Documents/wine/usr/lib/sane/libsane\-pieusb.a
The static library implementing this backend.
.TP
.I /Users/mike/Documents/wine/usr/lib/sane/libsane\-pieusb.so
The shared library implementing this backend (present on systems that
support dynamic loading).
.PP

.SH SEE ALSO
sane(7)

.SH "CONTACT AND BUG-REPORTS"
Please send any information and bug-reports to:
.br
.B Klaus Kämpf <kkaempf@suse.com>

.SH AUTHORS
The pieusb backend is based on work by Jan Vleeshouwers, Michael
Rickmann, and Klaus Kämpf
