.TH sane\-kodak 5 "10 Feb 2010" "" "SANE Scanner Access Now Easy"
.IX sane\-kodak

.SH NAME
sane\-kodak \- SANE backend for big Kodak flatbed and ADF scanners

.SH DESCRIPTION
The 
.B sane\-kodak
library implements a SANE (Scanner Access Now Easy) backend which
provides access to large Kodak flatbed and ADF scanners.

This document describes backend version 7, which shipped with SANE 1.0.21.

.SH SUPPORTED HARDWARE
This version should support models which speak the Kodak SCSI and Firewire 
protocols. The i1860 was used to develop the backend, but other models may 
work with only minimal modifications. Please see the list at 
http://www.sane\-project.org/sane\-supported\-devices.html for an updated list.

If you have a machine not on that list, or reported as 'untested': the best way 
to determine level of support is to test the scanner directly, or to collect a 
trace of the windows driver in action.  Please contact the author for help or 
with test results.

.SH UNSUPPORTED HARDWARE
Most of the recent Kodak consumer or workgroup level machines are based on 
other chipsets and are not supported by this backend. Some of these scanners 
may be supported by another backend.

.SH OPTIONS
Effort has been made to expose the basic hardware options, including:
.PP
source s 
.RS
Selects the source for the scan. Options
may include "Flatbed", "ADF Front", "ADF Back", "ADF Duplex".
.RE
.PP
mode m 
.RS
Selects the mode for the scan. Options
may include "Lineart", "Halftone", "Gray", and "Color".
.RE
.PP
resolution 
.RS
Controls scan resolution. Available choices may be limited by mode.
.RE
.PP
tl\-x, tl\-y, br\-x, br\-y
.RS
Sets scan area upper left and lower right coordinates. These are renamed 
t, l, x, y by some frontends.
.RE
.PP
page\-width, page\-height
.RS
Sets paper size. Used by scanner to determine centering of scan
coordinates when using ADF and to detect double feed errors.
.RE
.PP
Other options will be available based on the capabilities of the scanner.
Use 'scanimage \-\-help' to get a list, but be aware that some options may 
be settable only when another option has been set, and that advanced options 
may be hidden by some frontend programs.
.PP
.SH CONFIGURATION FILE
The configuration file "kodak.conf" is used to tell the backend how to look
for scanners, and provide options controlling the operation of the backend.
This file is read each time the frontend asks the backend for a list 
of scanners, generally only when the frontend starts. If the configuration
file is missing, the backend will use a set of compiled defaults, which
are identical to the default configuration file shipped with SANE.
.PP
Scanners can be specified in the configuration file in 2 ways:
.PP
"scsi KODAK"
.RS
Requests backend to search all scsi busses in the system for a device 
which reports itself to be a scanner made by 'KODAK'. 
.RE
.PP
"scsi /dev/sg0" (or other scsi device file)
.RS
Requests backend to open the named scsi device. Only useful if you have
multiple compatible scanners connected to your system, and need to
specify one. Probably should not be used with the other "scsi" line above.
.RE
.PP
The only configuration option supported is "buffer\-size=xxx", allowing you
to set the number of bytes in the data buffer to something other than the 
compiled\-in default, 32768 (32K). Some users report that their scanner will
"hang" mid\-page, or fail to transmit the image if the buffer is not large
enough.
.PP
Note: This option may appear multiple times in the configuration file. It only
applies to scanners discovered by 'scsi/usb' lines that follow this option.
.PP
Note: The backend does not place an upper bound on this value, as some users
required it to be quite large. Values above the default are not recommended,
and may crash your OS or lockup your scsi card driver. You have been
warned.
.PP

.SH ENVIRONMENT
The backend uses a single environment variable, SANE_DEBUG_KODAK, which
enables debugging output to stderr. Valid values are:
.PP
.RS
5  Errors
.br
10 Function trace
.br
15 Function detail
.br
20 Option commands
.br
25 SCSI trace
.br
30 SCSI detail
.br
35 Useless noise
.RE

.SH KNOWN ISSUES
Most hardware options are either not supported or not exposed for control by 
the user, including: multifeed detection, image compression, autocropping,
endorser, iThresholding, multi\-stream, etc.
.PP

.SH CREDITS
The various authors of the sane\-fujitsu backend provided useful code.
.br
Kodak provided access to hardware, documentation and personnel.
  
.SH "SEE ALSO"
sane(7),
sane\-scsi(5)

.SH AUTHOR
m. allan noah: <kitno455 a t gmail d o t com>
