.TH "sane\-lexmark" "5" "12 Jul 2008" "" "SANE Scanner Access Now Easy"
.IX sane\-lexmark
.SH "NAME"
sane\-lexmark \- SANE backend for Lexmark X1100/X1200 Series scanners
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The
.B sane\-lexmark
library implements a SANE (Scanner Access Now Easy) backend that
provides access to the scanner part of Lexmark X1100/X1200 AIOs. This backend
should be considered
.B beta-quality
software! 
.PP 
The scanners that should work with this backend are:
.PP 
.RS
.ft CR
.nf 
   Vendor Model           status
\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-  \-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-
  Lexmark X74             good
  Lexmark X1110           untested
  Lexmark X1140           untested
  Lexmark X1150           good
  Lexmark X1170           good
  Lexmark X1180           good
  Lexmark X1185           complete
  Lexmark X12xx           good in USB1.1,
  			  not fully tested in USB2.0
  Dell    A920            good
.fi 
.ft R
.RE

The options the backend supports can either be selected through
command line options to programs like scanimage or through GUI
elements in xscanimage or xsane.

.br 
If you have any strange behavior, please report to the backend
maintainer or to the SANE mailing list.

Valid command line options and their syntax can be listed by using 
.RS
scanimage \-\-help \-d lexmark:usb:<usb port>
.RE

.TP 
.B Scan Mode Options

.TP 
.B \-\-mode
selects the basic mode of operation of the scanner valid choices are 
.IR Color ,
.I Gray
and
.I Lineart
The default mode is Color. The Lineart mode is black and white only (1 bit). 
Grayscale will produce 256 levels of gray (8 bits). Color mode allows for over
16 million different colors produced from 24 bits of color information.

.TP 
.B \-\-resolution
selects the resolution for a scan. The horizontal and vertical resolutions are set 
by the value of this option. The scanner is capable of the following resolutions for the specified option value:
.PP 
.RS
.ft CR
.nf 
  Value   Hor. Resolution  Vert. Resolution 
  \-\-\-\-\-   \-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-  \-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-
  75      75dpi            75dpi
  150     150dpi           150dpi 
  300     300dpi           300dpi 
  600     600dpi           600dpi 
  1200    600dpi           1200dpi  (only for X11xx models with 'B2' sensor)
.fi 
.ft R
.RE

.TP 
.B \-\-preview
requests a preview scan. The resolution used for that scan is 75 dpi
and the scan area and the scan mode are as specified through their options, 
or the default if not specified. The default value for preview mode is "no".

.TP 
.B \-\-threshold
selects the  minimum-brightness to get a white point. The threshold is only used with Lineart mode scans.
It is specified as a percentage in the range 0..100% (in steps of 1).  
The default value of the threshold option is 50.


.SH "CONFIGURATION FILE"
The configuration file /Users/mike/Documents/wine/usr/etc/sane.d/lexmark.conf contains only the usb device id (eg usb 0x043d 0x007c).


.SH "FILES"
.TP 
.I /Users/mike/Documents/wine/usr/lib/sane/libsane\-lexmark.a
The static library implementing this backend.
.TP 
.I /Users/mike/Documents/wine/usr/lib/sane/libsane\-lexmark.so
The shared library implementing this backend (present on systems that
support dynamic loading).


.SH "ENVIRONMENT"
.TP 
.B SANE_DEBUG_LEXMARK
.B SANE_DEBUG_LEXMARK_LOW
If the library was compiled with debug support enabled, this
environment variable controls the debug level for this backend. E.g.,
a value of 255 requests all debug output to be printed. Smaller levels
reduce verbosity.


.SH "LIMITATIONS"
The windows TWAIN driver has many more options than this SANE
backend. However they are only software adjustments. This backend only
implements what the scanner can support. For instance, shading correction
(vertical stripes due to sensor variation across its width) is done in
software. Head park position is also detected by software.
The data compression isn't supported for the X1200 series on USB 1.1,
leading to slow scans.

.SH "BUGS"
.br 
No bugs currently known.



.SH "SEE ALSO"
sane\-scsi(5), scanimage(1), xscanimage(1), xsane(1), sane(7)


.SH "AUTHOR"
.TP 
The backend was originally written by Fred Odendaal.
.I http://ca.geocities.com/freshshelf@rogers.com/
.TP 
The new version is currently developed by St\['e]phane Voltz.
.I http://stef.dev.free.fr/sane/lexmark
.TP
X74 support was written by Torsten Houwaart (<ToHo@gmx.de>)
.SH "CREDITS"
.TP 
Many thanks go to:
Julien Furgerot who lend me a Dell A920.
Robert Price, Dani Ele  and Dalai Felinto for the time they spent recording
USB activity and testing the experimental version.
