.TH sane\-tamarack 5 "14 Jul 2008" "" "SANE Scanner Access Now Easy"
.IX sane\-tamarack
.SH NAME
sane\-tamarack \- SANE backend for Tamarack flatbed scanners
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B sane\-tamarack
library implements a SANE (Scanner Access Now Easy) backend that
provides access to the following Tamarack flatbed scanners:
.PP
.RS
Artiscan 6000C
.br
Artiscan 8000C
.br
Artiscan 12000C
.br
.RE
.PP
.SH "DEVICE NAMES"
This backend expects device names of the form:
.PP
.RS
.I special
.RE
.PP
Where
.I special
is the path-name for the special device that corresponds to a
SCSI scanner. The special device name must be a generic SCSI device or a
symlink to such a device.  The program 
.IR sane\-find\-scanner 
helps to find out the correct device. Under Linux, such a device name
could be
.I /dev/sga
or
.IR /dev/sge ,
for example.  See sane\-scsi(5) for details.

.SH FILES
.TP
.I /Users/mike/Documents/wine/usr/etc/sane.d/tamarack.conf
The backend configuration file (see also description of
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
below).
.TP
.I /Users/mike/Documents/wine/usr/lib/sane/libsane\-tamarack.a
The static library implementing this backend.
.TP
.I /Users/mike/Documents/wine/usr/lib/sane/libsane\-tamarack.so
The shared library implementing this backend (present on systems that
support dynamic loading).
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
This environment variable specifies the list of directories that may
contain the configuration file.  Under UNIX, the directories are
separated by a colon (`:'), under OS/2, they are separated by a
semi-colon (`;').  If this variable is not set, the configuration file
is searched in two default directories: first, the current working
directory (".") and then in /Users/mike/Documents/wine/usr/etc/sane.d.  If the value of the
environment variable ends with the directory separator character, then
the default directories are searched after the explicitly specified
directories.  For example, setting
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
to "/tmp/config:" would result in directories "tmp/config", ".", and
"/Users/mike/Documents/wine/usr/etc/sane.d" being searched (in this order).
.TP
.B SANE_DEBUG_TAMARACK
If the library was compiled with debug support enabled, this
environment variable controls the debug level for this backend.  Higher
debug levels increase the verbosity of the output. 

Example: 
export SANE_DEBUG_TAMARACK=4

.SH "SEE ALSO"
sane(7), sane\-scsi(5)
.SH AUTHOR
Roger Wolff
