.TH sane\-stv680 5 "11 Jul 2008" "" "SANE Scanner Access Now Easy"
.IX sane\-stv680
.SH NAME
sane\-stv680 \- SANE backend for STV680 camera's
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B sane\-stv680
library implements a SANE (Scanner Access Now Easy) backend that
provides access to some STV680 cameras. This backend
should be considered
.B beta-quality
software! STV680 cameras are sold under
various brands like Aiptek.
This backend may or may not support yours.
.PP
The cameras that should work with this backend are:
.PP
.ft CR
.nf
Vendor Model              USB vendor id  USB product id  status
------------------------  -------------  --------------  --------
AIPTEK stv680                0x0553         0x0202       basic
Konica e-mini                0x04c8         0x0722       untested
DigitalDream l'espion XS     0x1183         0x0001       untested
Creative WebCam Go mini      0x041e         0x4007       untested
.fi
.ft R

For all these cameras, see the backend home page (under AUTHOR)
for the exact status of each camera.

For startup of this backend check that if present the stv680 kernel module is
removed or disabled.
.br
Also before using, enable the backend by editing the /etc/sane.d/dll.conf file, 
change #stv680 to stv680.

For problems with the untested cameras, you
should contact the author for that.

The options the backend supports can either be selected through
command line options to programs like scanimage or through GUI
elements in xcam. For both programs use the \-B option needed for size buffer.

Some frontends examples:
.br
xcam
.RS
xcam \-B
.RE

scanimage: for writing in batch mode to a file or to a new file each time.
.RS
scanimage \-B \-d stv680:libusb:001:002 \-\-batch=out.ppm \-\-batch-count 5 \-\-mode "Color RGB"
.RE
.RS
scanimage \-B \-d stv680:libusb:001:002 \-\-batch=out%d.ppm \-\-batch-count 5 \-\-mode "Color RGB"
.RE

.br
If you have any success with a camera not listed here, or if you have
any strange behavior, please report to the backend maintainer or to
the SANE mailing list.

Valid command line options and their syntax can be listed by using 
.RS
scanimage \-\-help \-d stv680
.RE


.TP
.B Scan Mode

.TP
.B \-\-mode
selects the basic mode of operation of the webcams valid choices.

The read resolution mode is 8 bits, output resolution is 24 bits. 
Selects the resolution for a scan.
The camera can do only the resolutions listed.
.TP
.B \-\-Raw
In this mode raw data is displayed
.TP
.B \-\-Color
In this mode the bayer unshuffle is done but no color correction
.TP
.B \-\-Color_RGB
Bayer unshuffle, color correction
.TP
.B \-\-Color_RGB_TXT
Bayer unshuffle, color correction, textline with date and time is added


.TP
.B Enhancement options

.TP
.B \-\-white\-level\-r
Selects what red radiance level should be
considered "white", when scanning some sheets by changing the calibration 
value loaded into the scanner. Scale \-32 .. 0 .. +32 in steps of 1.

.TP
.B \-\-white\-level\-g
Selects what green radiance level should be
considered "white", when scanning some sheets by changing the calibration i
value loaded into the scanner. Scale \-32 .. 0 .. +32 in steps of 1.

.TP
.B \-\-white\-level\-b
Selects what blue radiance level should be
considered "white", when scanning some sheets by changing the calibration
value loaded into the scanner. Scale \-32 .. 0 .. +32 in steps of 1.

.SH CONFIGURATION FILE
The configuration file /Users/mike/Documents/wine/usr/etc/sane.d/stv680.conf supports only one
information: the device name to use (eg usb 0x.... 0x....).


.SH FILES
.TP
.I /Users/mike/Documents/wine/usr/lib/sane/libsane\-stv680.a
The static library implementing this backend.
.TP
.I /Users/mike/Documents/wine/usr/lib/sane/libsane\-stv680.so
The shared library implementing this backend (present on systems that
support dynamic loading).


.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B SANE_DEBUG_STV680
If the library was compiled with debug support enabled, this
environment variable controls the debug level for this backend. E.g.,
a value of 128 requests all debug output to be printed. Smaller levels
reduce verbosity.

.SH LIMITATIONS
The windows TWAIN driver has many more options than this SANE
backend. However they are only software adjustments. This backend only
implements what the webcam can support.


.SH BUGS

.TP
Plenty. Parts of this backend are still under development.
1. Some untested cameras.
.br
2. Video streaming slow and stops sometimes (scanimage).
.br
3. Sometimes 1/3 of image is NOK (xcam).


.SH "SEE ALSO"

sane\-usb(5), scanimage(1), xcam(1), sane(7)


.SH AUTHORS

Gerard Klaver http://gkall.hobby.nl/stv680-aiptek.html



.SH CREDITS

.TP
Thanks to developers of the other stv680 programs:
STV680 kernel module
.br
pencam2 program
.br
libghoto2 program (camlib stv0680)

