.TH sane\-st400 5 "14 Jul 2008" "" "SANE Scanner Access Now Easy"
.IX sane\-st400
.SH NAME
sane\-st400 \- SANE backend for Siemens ST/Highscan flatbed scanners
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B sane\-st400
library implements a SANE (Scanner Access Now Easy) backend that
provides access to Siemens ST400 flatbed scanners and compatibles.
At present, the following scanners are supported by this backend:
.PP
.RS
Siemens ST400 (6 bit gray scale)
.br
Siemens ST800 (6 bit gray scale)
.br
.RE
.PP
The driver supports line art and gray scans up to 8bpp.
.PP
The Siemens ST/Highscan series includes several more models, e.g. the ST300
and ST600.  If you own one of these scanners, or a scanner other than the
ones listed above that works with this backend, please let us know by sending
the scanner's model name, SCSI ID, and firmware revision to
.IR sane\-devel@lists.alioth.debian.org .
Have a look at http://www.sane\-project.org/mailing\-lists.html concerning subscription
to sane\-devel.

.SH "DEVICE NAMES"
This backend expects device names of the form:
.PP
.RS
.I special
.RE
.PP
Where
.I special
is either the path-name for the special device that corresponds to a
SCSI scanner. For SCSI scanners, the special device name must be a
generic SCSI device or a symlink to such a device.  Under Linux, such
a device name could be
.I /dev/sga
or
.IR /dev/sge ,
for example.  See sane\-scsi(5) for details.
.SH CONFIGURATION
The contents of the
.I st400.conf
file is a list of device names that correspond to Siemens
scanners.  Empty lines and lines starting with a hash mark (#) are
ignored.  A sample configuration file is shown below:
.PP
.RS
/dev/scanner
.br
# this is a comment
.br
/dev/sge
.RE
.PP
The default configuration file that is distributed with SANE looks like
this:
.PP
.RS
scsi SIEMENS "ST 400" Scanner * * 3 0
.RE
.PP
In this configuration, the driver can only access the ST400 model
at SCSI ID 3 LUN 0 (see section "BUGS" below for the reason).
To use the driver with other scanner models, add an appropriate line to
the configuration file.  For example, to use it with an ST800 at SCSI
ID 3 LUN 0, add the line:
.PP
.RS
scsi SIEMENS "ST 800" Scanner * * 3 0
.RE

.SH FILES
.TP
.I /Users/mike/Documents/wine/usr/etc/sane.d/st400.conf
The backend configuration file (see also description of
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
below).
.TP
.I /Users/mike/Documents/wine/usr/lib/sane/libsane\-st400.a
The static library implementing this backend.
.TP
.I /Users/mike/Documents/wine/usr/lib/sane/libsane\-st400.so
The shared library implementing this backend (present on systems that
support dynamic loading).
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
This environment variable specifies the list of directories that may
contain the configuration file.  Under UNIX, the directories are
separated by a colon (`:'), under OS/2, they are separated by a
semi-colon (`;').  If this variable is not set, the configuration file
is searched in two default directories: first, the current working
directory (".") and then in /etc/sane.d.  If the value of the
environment variable ends with the directory separator character, then
the default directories are searched after the explicitly specified
directories.  For example, setting
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
to "/tmp/config:" would result in directories "tmp/config", ".", and
"/etc/sane.d" being searched (in this order).
.TP
.B SANE_DEBUG_ST400
If the library was compiled with debug support enabled, this environment
variable controls the debug level for this backend. E.g., a value of 128
requests all debug output to be printed. Smaller levels reduce verbosity.

.SH MISSING FUNCTIONALITY

Everything but the most basic stuff.

.SH BUGS
Currently, the backend does not check if the attached device really is
a ST400.  It will happily accept everything that matches the configuration
entries.  This makes it easy to test the backend with other scanners:
Just add an appropriate line to the configuration file.  The configuration
file as distributed (see above) only works with the ST400.  Be careful:
If there is no config file at all, the backend defaults to /dev/scanner.
.PP
The ST400 answers on all eight SCSI LUNs.  Normally this is not a problem,
as LUN support is usually disabled in SCSI drivers, but if you are seeing
multiple instances of the scanner in a device list, either disable LUNs in
your SCSI setup or change the entry in the configuration file to match
LUN 0 only.

.SH DEBUG
If you encounter a bug please set the environment variable
SANE_DEBUG_ST400 to 128 and try to regenerate the problem. Then
send me a report with the log attached.
.PP
If you encounter a SCSI bus error or trimmed and/or displaced images please
also set the environment variable SANE_DEBUG_SANEI_SCSI to 128 before sending
me the report.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
sane(7), sane\-scsi(5)
.br
http://www.informatik.uni-oldenburg.de/~ingo/sane/ 

.SH AUTHOR

Ingo Wilken <Ingo.Wilken@informatik.uni-oldenburg.de>
