.TH "sane\-p5" "5" "15 Feb 2010" "" "SANE Scanner Access Now Easy"
.IX sane\-p5
.SH "NAME"
sane\-p5 \- SANE backend for the Primax PagePartner
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The
.B sane\-p5
library implements a SANE (Scanner Access Now Easy) backend that
provides access to the Primax PagePartner parallel port sheet fed scanner.
.PP 
This backend handles 100, 150, 200, 300 and 600 dpi scan resolutions,
in color and gray modes. The 600 dpi is actually 300x600 with lines
enlarged to match the vertical resolution.
.PP 
.B EPP/ECP MODES ONLY
The current version of the backend uses only EPP or ECP mode to communicate 
with the scanner. It is 
recommended that you set your parallel port to EPP in BIOS with the current 
version of this backend. ECPEPP will only
work if you use a 2.4 or 2.6 kernel with ppdev character device support.
.PP 

.SH "DEVICE NAMES"
This backend expects device names of the form:
.PP 
.RS
.I port value
.RE
.PP 
Where
\fBvalue\fR is : 

.RS
.TP
auto
autodetect all parallel ports and probe
them for scanner
.TP
/dev/parport0
uses linux ppdev device, depending on the
number of available parallel port, you
have to use /dev/parport1, /dev/parport2, ...
.PP 
.RE
You can rename any device using the
.PP 
.RS
.br
.I option name my_name
.RE
.PP 
option. This option apply to the last port option. 

.SH "CONFIGURATION"
Please make sure to edit dll.conf
.B before
you use the backend, since this backend isn't enabled by default.
.PP 

.PP 



.SH "FILES"
.TP 
.I /Users/mike/Documents/wine/usr/etc/sane.d/p5.conf
The backend configuration file (see also description of
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
below).
.TP 
.I /Users/mike/Documents/wine/usr/lib/sane/libsane\-p5.a
The static library implementing this backend.
.TP 
.I /Users/mike/Documents/wine/usr/lib/sane/libsane\-p5.so
The shared library implementing this backend (present on systems that
support dynamic loading).

.SH "ENVIRONMENT"
.TP 
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
This environment variable specifies the list of directories that may
contain the configuration file.  Under UNIX, the directories are
separated by a colon (`:'), under OS/2, they are separated by a
semi-colon (`;').  If this variable is not set, the configuration file
is searched in two default directories: first, the current working
directory (".") and then in /Users/mike/Documents/wine/usr/etc/sane.d.  If the value of the
environment variable ends with the directory separator character, then
the default directories are searched after the explicitly specified
directories.  For example, setting
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
to "/tmp/config:" would result in directories "tmp/config", ".", and
"/Users/mike/Documents/wine/usr/etc/sane.d" being searched (in this order).
.TP 
.B SANE_DEBUG_P5
If the library was compiled with debug support enabled, this
environment variable controls the debug level for this backend.  E.g.,
a value of 255 requests all debug output to be printed.  Smaller
levels reduce verbosity.

.PP 
.RS
.ft CR
.nf
level   debug output
\-\-\-\-\-\-\- \-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-
 0       critical errors
 1       errors
 2       warnings & minor errors
 4       information messages
 8       start/stop of functions
 16      tracing messages              
 32      I/O functions
 64      I/O functions with traces
 128     scanned/calibration data
.fi
.ft R
.RE
.PP 
.TP 

.PP 
.RS
.ft CR
.nf
.PP 
 
.PP 
.SH "SEE ALSO"
sane(7), sane\-net(5), saned(8)

.SH "AUTHOR"
St\['e]phane Voltz <stef.dev@free.fr>

.SH "CREDITS"
Support for the Prima PagePartner has been made possible thank to an hardware donation
by S\['e]bastien Lange.

.SH "BUG REPORTS"
If something doesn't work mail sane-devel@lists.alioth.debian.org or use the bug
tracker at https://alioth.debian.org/tracker/?atid=410366&group_id=30186 .
Please give as much information as you can. 

.TP 
.I SANE version
run "scanimage \-V" to determine this
.TP 
.I the backend version and your scanner hardware
run "SANE_DEBUG_P5=255 scanimage \-L 2>log" as root. If you don't get any output
from the p5 backend, make sure a line "p5" is included into
your /Users/mike/Documents/wine/usr/etc/sane.d/dll.conf.
If your scanner isn't detected, make sure you've defined the right port address, or the
correct device 
in your p5.conf.
.TP 
.I the name of your scanner/vendor
also a worthy information. Please also include the optical resolution and lamp type of your scanner, both can be found in the manual of your scanner.
.TP 
.I any further comments
if you have comments about the documentation (what could be done better), or you
think I should know something, please include it.
