.TH sane\-nec 5 "14 Jul 2008" "" "SANE Scanner Access Now Easy"
.IX sane\-nec
.SH NAME
sane\-nec \- SANE backend for NEC scanners
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B sane\-nec
library implements a SANE (Scanner Access Now Easy) backend that
provides access to NEC SCSI scanners.  This backend should be
considered
.B alpha-quality
software!  In the current state it is known to work with PC-IN500/4C 
scanners. Another MultiReader scanner series is not supported. PC-IN
500/4C and MultiReader scanner are only sold in Japan.(except Multi
Reader PetiScan.)

For other scanners, it may or may not work.
.PP
The backend has the following known problems:
.RS
\- ColorLineart mode is not supported.
.br
\- device name is fixed to /dev/scanner
.RE
.PP
At present,
the following scanners are known to work with this backend.
.RS
.ft CR
.nf
Vendor Product id
------ -----------
NEC    PC-IN500/4C
.fi
.ft R
.RE

.SH FILES
.TP
.I /Users/mike/Documents/wine/usr/etc/sane.d/nec.conf
The backend configuration file.
.TP
.I /Users/mike/Documents/wine/usr/lib/sane/libsane\-nec.a
The static library implementing this backend.
.TP
.I /Users/mike/Documents/wine/usr/lib/sane/libsane\-nec.so
The shared library implementing this backend (present on systems that
support dynamic loading).
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B SANE_DEBUG_NEC
If the library was compiled with debug support enabled, this
environment variable controls the debug level for this backend.  E.g.,
a value of 128 requests all debug output to be printed.  Smaller
levels reduce verbosity.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
sane(7), sane\-scsi(5)
.SH AUTHORS
Kazuya Fukuda
