.\" ** You probably do not want to edit this file directly **
.\" It was generated using the DocBook XSL Stylesheets (version 1.69.1).
.\" Instead of manually editing it, you probably should edit the DocBook XML
.\" source for it and then use the DocBook XSL Stylesheets to regenerate it.
.TH "LIBGPHOTO2" "3" "08/16/2006" "" "The gPhoto2 Reference (the man"
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.SH "NAME"
libgphoto2 \- cross\-platform digital camera library
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.sp
.nf
#include <gphoto2/gphoto2.h>
.fi
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
The
gphoto2
library provides applications with access to a variety of cameras.
.PP
This man page will be extended with autogenerated documentation of the interface types and methods used for communication between the
gphoto2
library and a frontend.
.SH "FILES"
.TP
\fI~/.gphoto/settings\fR
Here
gphoto2
applications may store their configuration used to access
gphoto2.
.PP
To track down errors, you can add the
\fB\-\-debug\fR
parameter to the
\fBgphoto2\fR
command line and, if dealing with USB problems, setting the environment variable
\fBUSB_DEBUG\fR\fI=1\fR.
.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
.TP
\fBCAMLIBS\fR
If set, defines the directory where the
libgphoto2
library looks for its camera drivers (camlibs). You only need to set this on OS/2 systems and broken/test installations.
.TP
\fBIOLIBS\fR
If set, defines the directory where the
libgphoto2_port
library looks for its I/O drivers (iolibs). You only need to set this on OS/2 systems and broken/test installations.
.TP
\fBLD_DEBUG\fR
Set this to
\fIall\fR
to receive lots of debug information regarding library loading on
\fBld\fR
based systems.
.TP
\fBUSB_DEBUG\fR
If set, defines the numeric debug level with which the
libusb
library will print messages. In order to get some debug output, set it to
\fI1\fR.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
gphoto2(1),
libgphoto2_port(3), The gPhoto2 Manual, automatically generated
API
docs,
[1]\&\fIgphoto website\fR
.
.SH "AUTHOR"
The gPhoto2 Team. 
.br
Hans Ulrich Niedermann <gp@n\-dimensional.de>. (man page)
.SH "REFERENCES"
.TP 3
1.\ gphoto website
\%http://www.gphoto.org/
