.\" ** You probably do not want to edit this file directly **
.\" It was generated using the DocBook XSL Stylesheets (version 1.69.1).
.\" Instead of manually editing it, you probably should edit the DocBook XML
.\" source for it and then use the DocBook XSL Stylesheets to regenerate it.
.TH "LIBGPHOTO2_PORT" "3" "08/16/2006" "" "The gPhoto2 Reference (the man"
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.SH "NAME"
libgphoto2_port \- cross\-platform port access library
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.sp
.nf
#include <gphoto2/gphoto2_port.h>
.fi
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
The
libgphoto2_port
library was written to provide
libgphoto2(3)
with a generic way of accessing ports. In this function,
libgphoto2_port
is the successor of the
libgpio
library.
.PP
Currently,
libgphoto2_port
supports serial (RS\-232) and
USB
connections, the latter requiring
libusb
to be installed.
.PP
The autogenerated
API
docs will be added here in the future.
.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
.TP
\fBIOLIBS\fR
If set, defines the directory where the
libgphoto2_port
library looks for its I/O drivers (iolibs). You only need to set this on OS/2 systems and broken/test installations.
.TP
\fBLD_DEBUG\fR
Set this to
\fIall\fR
to receive lots of debug information regarding library loading on
\fBld\fR
based systems.
.TP
\fBUSB_DEBUG\fR
If set, defines the numeric debug level with which the
libusb
library will print messages. In order to get some debug output, set it to
\fI1\fR.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
libgphoto2(3), The gPhoto2 Manual,
[1]\&\fIgphoto website\fR, automatically generated
API
docs,
[2]\&\fIlibusb website\fR
.
.SH "AUTHOR"
The gPhoto2 Team. 
.br
Hans Ulrich Niedermann <gp@n\-dimensional.de>. (man page)
.SH "REFERENCES"
.TP 3
1.\ gphoto website
\%http://www.gphoto.org/
.TP 3
2.\ libusb website
\%http://libusb.sourceforge.net/
